//Abominations// are the basic and most common boss spawn. They have the
lowest Armour and Health of the boss types, and pose the smallest
threat. Abominations award one valor point per hero until the valor pool
is depleted.

## Skills:

-   Rotting Corpse:(Fumigating Abominations \[see below\]) When this
    boss dies it leaves behind a corpse with massive toxin damage.
    Toxins deal straight-to-health damage, slow, and are not reduced by
    armor or force field. This type of boss appears in Survival,
    Nightmare, and Extinction difficulties.

<!-- -->

-   Explode: (TNT Abominations \[see below\]) this unit will explode on
    death, doing massive AoE damage. This ability can be triggered early
    after the boss is in critical health. This type of boss appears in
    Survival, Nightmare, and Extinction difficulties.

<!-- -->

-   Tremor: All large bosses do not attack C4 and Claymores, but their
    heavy footsteps do damage to nearby C4 and Claymores

<!-- -->

-   True Sight: All bosses have truesight in a large radius.

## Variants:

The //Fumigating Abomination// ("Fatty", "Pudge") leaves behind a
rotting corpse when it dies. Any organic units that step on this corpse
will be slowed and suffer 50 damage per second to health in Nightmare+.
If they move off the corpse in time, the fumes will continue to damage
the unit for another three seconds. This is the least deadly Nightmare
variant, as the corpse is easy to avoid.
[Spiders](Spider_info "wikilink") may spawn from the corpse moments
after it dies.

//TNT Abominations// - more colloquially "Abom\*\*b\*\*s" - are the more
potent Nightmare+ variation. They have a dark-red shade, and it is
important that you be able to identify these before attempting
Nightmare+. Abombs will explode upon death for massive damage. This
explosion is reduced by nanites and armor. Cyborgs (with Force Field)
and easily replaceable units (such as the Robodog and Mini droids) are
best suited to tanking Abombs. Abombs spawn different amounts of
[innards](innards "wikilink") (can be huge swarms) after they explode so
be very careful when finishing off one of these bosses.

//Infested Abominations// only occur during the Nemesis boss battle.
They have much lower life than Abominations would have at that time in
the game (about half or lower) and less armor and damage but are still a
very powerful unit to be fighting the group alongside Nemesis. Upon
death, they will spawn a swarm of [fireflies](firefly "wikilink").

## Hints/Tips - Abomination

Use Adrenaline on a hero with a sniper rifle to quickly take this boss
down. Kamikazi hyperthrash, Watchman laser, or accelerated HO with
minidroids will also be able to bring down this boss with no problem.

==<Notes:==> Both boss varients of Abominations will be tracked via
satellite once 3 reactors have been powered all all difficulties below
Extinction. An announcement with minimap ping will always warn you when
a boss spawns, but the same announcement is made for all large bosses.

Dogs cannot evade boss hits. (Bosses do 0 radius splash damage to
mechanical units)

Fumigating Abominations: The first boss spawn will be a normal fatty. An
exception to this rule can happen on Normal, where the first boss can
take so long to spawn that it is allowed to be another type.

Special care should be taken when fighting a normal abomination while
filling a reactor or APC. If the boss body falls in a bad spot the team
can get trapped or the bunker can be blocked from receiving any more
civs. Note that fumigating abominations fall backwards before leaving
the rotting corpse, so placement of this body can be done wherever you
want with some practice.

There is an occasional visual glitch that will place the body in the
wrong spot but the fumes where they should be. Do not panic, the fumes
are pretty visible and the body is of no direct conesquence.

TNT Abominations: Abombs do not actually do TNT damage upon death - they
do a very large amount of AoE normal damage. Nanites, batteries, Shield
Caps, and armor do help against the explosion, while evasion does not.

If someone on team can take a hit or two, a tanking borg should step off
near the end of the boss fight then use pheramones to drag the boss away
from the team, making the explosion no threat to anyone. Another way to
create distance between a pheramoning borg and the abomb is by using
slow effects: concussion grenade, freeze ray, molotov, plasma rounds,
temporal distortion on x-grenade, and temporal distortion field. This
allows the abomb to be dragged away without anyone but the tanking borg
taking any hits - just be sure not to slow the borg as well!

Once Abombs are low enough health they are able to pre-pop at will. This
means that using the aforementioned strategy should be done early,
without passing right under the low-health abomb, and with caution.

Abomb explosions hurt friend and foe alike. Their explosion can destroy
minibosses and significantly hurt other bosses. For this reason if two
bosses arrive at the same time, the abomb should always be taken down
first. If an abomb can be lured into the middle of a group of
[commies](Commandos "wikilink") before exploding, the commies won't know
what hit them.

Again, Abombs spawn different amounts of \[innards\] (can be huge
swarms) after they explode so be very careful when finishing off one of
these bosses. It is currently unclear what causes the different number
of innards as it can be 0-30ish innards that spawn.