*These are the things that I have learned after playing through a lot of
SWAT games, and observing the strategies of the people who led them.
-capn_koala*

# Introduction

The goal of this guide is to explain advanced pathing and tactics not
covered in some of the other guides. All credit for this idea goes to
the people who made guides before me (names forthcoming). This guide
will go through the pathing decisions involved with filling tors,
rescuing civilians, a short section on ways of lowering radiation, mob
control and the ways it can be used with pathing through the middle and
rezzing teammates, and finally an overview of how to bring it all
together. I will do this through the liberal use of pictures and words.
This guide is only for Insane and above, so all the objectives will be
assumed in that difficulty range. Enjoy.

## Filling Tors

Often this is considered the first objective to complete as it gives
vision of bosses, allows robots free energy to drain, and fills Televacs
with energy. While it is good to focus on an objective to complete
early, it is never a good idea to pigeon hole yourself thinking that
tors will be the first objective completed every game. When you first
start the game only 3 tors will be visible. 2 of these tors will be
badly damage, and 1 will be severely damaged. The other 3 tors on the
map will be hidden; 1 will be a damaged, 1 will be badly damaged, and 1
will be severely damaged. The beginning pathing decisions of whether to
go clockwise (CW), counter-clockwise (CCW), or dash across the middle
will be based on the positioning of the first 3 tors. If there is a tor
nearby there is the option rushing and filling it early. Generally it is
only advisable to fill it if it is badly damaged, but if you have 9
players, and 1 or 2 are Energy Cells it is possible to fill a severely
damaged tor, just pray it doesn't pop late. The downside of filling a
tor early is that the team will probably be slightly underleveled, and
it is very risky as no one will have any crowd control abilities
leveled, and if the repair droid activates it tends to be very hard to
kill early game.

When filling a tor in a higher level game it is essential to consider
the direction in which you approach the tor. In addition to this it is
good to know if there are any bosses out, where the majority of the mob
is, how much energy everyone has, and mob manipulation (ie. c4,
claymores, and Robodogs). The following picture(s) will show if there is
a safe, relatively easy way (green), a viable way (yellow), a risky way
(orange), or a plain dangerous, you-will-probably-wipe way (red) to
enter and fill a tor (blue). On all these paths it is assumed that the
mob is controlled i.e. it isn't coming from random directions, but
following behind the team. Green paths will be easy to fill as the mob
will be coming at you in a nice straight line to a choke or corner that
has good visibility with the advantage of being able to shoot the mob
while in the tor. Yellow paths can be as easy as green, but will take
more coordination to do so. Teammates will need to know what they should
be doing at all times to make it a smooth and successful process. Orange
paths lack a way for the mob to group up and/or for the team to shoot
the mob from the tor. These paths will let the mob spread out and reduce
the damage of crowd control abilities. To do these requires excellent
mob manipulation. Red paths let the mob spread out and don't allow team
members in the tor to shoot. In addition to this it is also hard to
leave the tor area once these tors are finished or need to be aborted.
Even with the best of mob manipulation and coordination these tors
become very hard.

[image:Map-tor1.jpg](image:Map-tor1.jpg "wikilink")

[image:Map-tor2.jpg](image:Map-tor2.jpg "wikilink")

This image shows my preferred way to approach the location of every tor.
CW is red squares, CCW is blue squares, and if it doesn't really matter
which way you approach it is an orange square. The teal lines represent
that both CW and CCW pathing will enter from the same area. It is good
to reference this picture with the ones above to find the ideal way to
approach each tor.

[image:Map-cw&ccw.jpg](image:Map-cw&ccw.jpg "wikilink")

Things to note

-   This is just the difficulty of the pathing, things like what kind of
    tor it is, and if the team knows how to fill properly will also
    influence the difficulty of the tor.
-   This is also just my opinion. I don't like filing tors when there
    isn't a corner nearby for mob to bunch up around, and some of my
    difficulty ratings take this in to account. Make sure to get a good
    feeling of what you are comfortable with so that you can incorporate
    it into your own pathing decisions.
-   In my third picture there are more CCW rooms than CW, so if you are
    in doubt you the odds are with you to start in a CCW pathing route.

## Rescuing Civilians

One of the common mistakes made is that teams only civ when they are
camping a bunker. Bunkers rarely have a good choke point for zombies to
come to, but instead require excellent usage of robodog dancing. Not
only is this harder to survive, but it is also harder to civ as doted
zombies are more likely to be hit by splash and die. The solution is to
start civving before you get to the bunker, so the camping will only
take as long as it takes the doted zombies to convert. Not only is this
safer and more efficient, but it also helps speed the game up which is
essential for success as the longer the game the harder it tends to get.
The picture(s) below will show the proper place to start civving
(circle) for a certain bunker for both the CW (red) and CCW (yellow)
pathing routes.

[image:Map-civving.jpg](image:Map-civving.jpg "wikilink")

Things to note

-   It should be a given that everyone in the group has a stack of
    dotes. The most efficient way to civ is to only have 1-2 primary
    doters (preferably Healers) and have everyone else redote. This
    reduces the need to get additional dotes as the redoters should
    never run out.
-   The 6 bunkers are paired with each other. There are the 2 bottom, 2
    on the right side, and 2 on the left side. Often it is possible to
    civ enough for both bunkers and after one fills just go to the next
    one and quickly fill it. The lanes that you use to go form one
    bunker to the next are bracketed in orange.
-   It is //almost never// desirable to come towards a bunker from the
    outside of the map. For example, approaching the mid-left bunker
    from the left will likely result in the team getting pinched as they
    hold at the bunker for civs to convert. Unless your civs will
    already be converted by the time the team arrives, make a strong
    effort to approach the tors from the general direction of the middle
    of the map.

## Radiation

Lowering radiation is more of a luck thing. It can be pathed to focus on
early, or it can be assigned to one member (solo) to focus on while the
other team focuses on the other objectives. If the group focuses on
lowering radiation it will require quick movement with little camping.
Lowering radiation makes the other objectives easier, and weakens the
mob; making it easier to survive. To do this requires 2 things:
destroying rads and selling hazmats. The first part can be accomplished
from the opening seconds of the game, while the second requires ABMs to
be powered. There are generally 2 ways to destroy rads: a solo player
does it while the rest of the team focuses on the other 2 objectives, or
the team doesn't have a solo and focuses on exploring the map early to
lower radiation. The first option is nice as it allows the rest of the
team to camp more and focus on filling tors early. The downside is that
if the solo dies the team is at a huge disadvantage as it can often take
a long time to rez the solo, and then the solo will be underleveled. The
second option allows for quicker rad killing because multiple people can
check rooms to kill, and the danger from spiders and room spawns is
lessened. The downside is that the team will be underleveled due to
moving and not killing zombies, and won't have started the other
objectives. Both have their pros and cons. If a good player can be found
to solo that is probably a preferable option as it is hard to coordinate
a large group of people to move quickly. Things to note

-   In EXT the team has to deal with the Super Rad. No matter how many
    rads are killed it won't matter until the Super Radis killed. Only
    then will radiation truly be under control.

Hints/Tips\*\* //This section is for any players that want to give tips
on soloing. If you decide to add please add your name to your comment.//

## Mob Management

This section will go over ways which to manage the mob. Will probably
include a pic of more camping spots.

### Middle Pathing

Pathing through the middle can be a very dangerous excursion. Mob can
come from all sides and a team can panic and get wiped if something goes
wrong. For this reason it isn't advisable to make many trips as a group
through the middle of the map during the course of a game. If you do
find that you have to make a trip through the middle to fill a tor,
scout some rooms, or pick up a recall/items here is a general method to
being successful. Make sure you and your team know where you are
starting from, ending up, and how you are ending up there before you
begin. This could change, but it is a good idea for everyone to know the
general idea to limit people getting split up. After that you will need
to camp to make sure all the mob is behind the team, but not so long
that zombies stop rezzing and start lots of room spawns up. Ioning the
pile is not a good thing to do before going through the middle. After
you decide to move you need to move quickly. unless you need to camp to
do something people should only be shooting what's in front of them. if
you are filling a tor it is a good idea to lay c4 or claymores against a
wall to give the team as much mob free time as possible. Also it is good
to scout as many rooms as possible and get all the rads/items. Having to
make another trip through the middle just for some items or rads is a
bigger risk than it needs to be, so try to path in as many unscouted
rooms as safely possible. On the subject of items: people shouldn't be
arguing over who has what, the team can redistribute items later, just
make sure that all of them are picked up/lockered before moving on. And
that is pretty much it. Do what you need to do and worry about mob when
get back to the outer pathing circle. Here are some examples:

I like activating the graveyard before I go through the middle to lower
the chances of room spawns. This pathing gives a lot of options, and can
potentially set up just about any tor in the middle. Taking the first
right in the middle of this path is the best option because it goes by
the Lab and some hard to scout rooms, but don't feel like it is
necessary. The Lab can be hit, and you can still use the alley just to
the left of it to continue down if need be.

[image:Map-middle1.jpg](image:Map-middle1.jpg "wikilink")

This path can start at the start of the lines, or at the corners of the
turns just after the start. This pathing is good for hitting the 3
connected rooms, especially if there is a tor that needs to be done. If
you do decide to hit those rooms make sure that the team heads straight
up the left side of the graveyard to avoid running into the mob head on.

[image:Map-middle2.jpg](image:Map-middle2.jpg "wikilink")

This picture shows some other starting spots to make a middle run with
the red arrows showing the direction the mob is coming at the team.

[image:Map-middle3.jpg](image:Map-middle3.jpg "wikilink")

Things to note

-   Don't be scared of going through the middle, just don't spend a lot
    of time there. That is how team wipes happen.
-   These are only some suggested and obvious places to start pathing
    through the middle, there are others ways it can be started, but
    these tend to give the most options.

### Rezzing

This section will go over the 3 ideas of rezzing: big loops, small
loops, and doubling back.

# Overview

Tie everything together. How to do 3 objectives simultaneously, and then
finish with Nem pathing/camping. Any room outside this box I consider to
be within normal pathing. Sometimes a certain tor outside the box
(specifically the one yellow room with the teal dot) will require
special pathing, but otherwise I consider all rooms not yellow as part
of the general pathing.

[image:Map-pathing.jpg](image:Map-pathing.jpg "wikilink")

Many times a team will need to reverse directions. Sometimes this can be
accomplished when filling a tor. If that isn't an option then then there
are certain spots on the map that allow for the team to reverse
directions. The pink line shows the direction the team came from, the
yellow box is where they camp, and the red line is the path they take to
reverse directions.

[image:Map-reversing.jpg](image:Map-reversing.jpg "wikilink")

## Acknowledgments