# Fire Fly

*These are annoying little creatures that spawn from a \[Zombie\|yellow
zombie\]* and love to eat nanites!

Fireflies do a very fast, low-damage attack. This adds up quickly, but
the extra hp absorption from Power Armor spec or Pyro's Reinforced
Plating can actually allow them to tank fireflies without incurring
damage by turning nanites off. This is not recommended if the hero might
take any other hit. As fireflies are invulnerable and can hurt a lot,
running in circles like headless chickens is recommended. Try not to
directly double-back as this will allow the firefly several steps to
attack you.

##

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Notes

There is no way to kill fireflies, they will simply die after a certain
time period. They start off "vulnerable" in the sense that you can shoot
them, but they will immediately take on invulnerability and timed life
after being shot. This is so that their life timer begins closer to
where the team actually is (as opposed to maybe in the middle of nowhere
because a c4 or nuke killed the yellow zombie). Activating fireflies as
soon as possible so that they time out quickly is recommended. Use a
splash weapon or concussion grenade to activate them. They deal regular
damage which can kill quickly. Fireflies are more likely to target
heroes with heavier armors. //Never// use the freeze ray on a vulnerable
firefly. The firefly will become invulnerable (like normal) but will
gain unnaturally long life, plus the freeze ray's slow aura which can
affect our team as well as the enemies. Being slowed while tanking an
endless firefly will almost always result in death. Cloaking or
recalling can drop the aggro of a firefly, allowing them to target
someone else. This is usually a good thing: If a team of 5 each has to
run from 1 firefly then there are no guns shooting; if one person has to
run from 5 fireflies then 4 people are able to keep shooting. Because
fireflies are intended to never be killed while vulnerable, they are
given massive health. If you can biochem a vulnerable firefly, you will
gain the maximum amount of energy possible.