## DPS between AR, Chaingun and Flamethrower

------------------------------------------------------------------------

`I remember my days as a newb. And I still see newbs making this sort of mistake. Just because the Sniper Rifle gives 1d40 bonus when upgraded, newbies tend to initially upgrade the Sniper Rifles first and foremost. Later on, they learn it's more important to give ammo to CC weapons.`

Even if the Assault Rifle was called a Shotgun, extensive playtesting
and such would eventually prove which weapon is truly the superior
option to give Ammo Upgrades to. Even though zombie health increases, a
Dragoon Flamer can still dish out a high DPS value when Advanced Fuel is
maxed out.

\|\|Chaingun\|\| \|\| \|\|Cooldown:\|\| 0.62\|\| \|\|Damage:\|\|
45-52\|\| \|\|Ammo:\|\| +1-8\|\| \|\|Dragoon:\|\| +8\|\| \|\|Range:\|\|
550\|\| \|\|Splash:\|\| 100% (24), 95% (60), 33% (105)\|\|

A maxed out Chaingun deals 58-100 damage. Add in maxed out Plasma Rounds
(which happens less often than maxed out Advanced Fuel, mind you) for
+50 slowing damage. 108-150 damage in a small AoE, averaging 129 damage.
We'll treat the base cooldown as 0.50 for simplicity. This represents
258DPS. \|\|Flamethrower\|\| \|\| \|\|Cooldown:\|\| 0.23\|\|
\|\|Damage:\|\| 10-12\|\| \|\|Ammo:\|\| +1-2\|\| \|\|Dragoon:\|\| +2\|\|
\|\|Range:\|\| 700\|\| \|\|Splash:\|\| 100% (110x10)\|\| Maxed out, the
Flamethrower ends up doing 17-24 damage. Add in maxed out Advanced Fuel
for +80% damage; the average damage rises 36.9 per shot. We'll treat the
cooldown as 0.25 for simplicity here as well (in this instance, we've
weakened it, versus strengthening the Chaingun.) This totals 147.6DPS.

-   So far, the Chaingun wins out on pure DPS. However, it does not take
    into account splash, AoE, or Range. We can't directly measure range,
    but let's say zombies take one second to travel 150 distance. That
    represents additional power for the Flamer's longer range. However,
    we'll leave range out here.

The Chaingun's AoE is usually not enough to hit more than maybe 6
zombies. However, this damage is reduced by the splash factor. On
average, it seems to me to be around 30% of the original damage is dealt
to splash targets. 258 \* 2.5 = 645DPS. Keep in mind however that Plasma
Rounds, to my knowledge, are not usually maxed out; this figure assumes
they are.

The Flamethrower requires only two zombies to make use of its splash
effect, since it can bounce back and forth between the same two zombies.
147.6 \* 12 = 1771.2DPS. Oh yeah, remember the extra range on the
Flamethrower?

The initial DPS makes the Flamethrower look very weak, there can be no
argument there. However, taking into account gameplay observations and
data from from the STIT itself changes things around. Also to be taken
into account is that I weakened the Flamethrower cooldown slightly,
while at the same time buffing the Chaingun cooldown significantly.
That's not something to be taken lightly. Increasing attack speed
greatly increases the difference between the two guns.

I want to point out that while the Chaingun can certainly hit more than
six zombies, Plasma Rounds is usually //not// maxed out, and you need
assistance from a stun or slow effect as well as good use of walls; the
Flamethrower does not need said assistance to reach full potential,
other than walling to compress.

\|\|Assault Rifle \|\| \|\| \|\|Cooldown:\|\| 1.86 \|\| \|\|Damage:\|\|
90-124 \|\| \|\|Ammo:\|\| +1-18 \|\| \|\|Dragoon:\|\| +19 \|\|
\|\|Range: \|\|900 \|\| \|\|Splash:\|\| 100% (24), 50% (96), 25%
(155)\|\| Maxed out with Dragoon, the damage sits at 114-233, which
averages to 173.5. The +80 damage from the Refined Rifle ability must be
kept separate for these calculations; there's a reason it's not shown
directly in the damage display.

The longer range, again assuming 150 range is 1 second, equates to 2.93
extra attacks. Again, I'll leave it out for now, since it would
complicate the main calculations. Also, bear in mind the 173.5+80 is
still using the base cooldown.

Every time you hit, the larger splash will likely net you an extra
zombie or two over the Chaingun. That's 8 zombies. The chances of any of
them being inside the 100% splash range is close enough to zero we can
ignore this, except of course for the primary target. (173.5 + 80
dealt.) At most, about a third is likely to be in the 50% splash range.
(\[86.75 + 80\] \* 3 dealt.) The rest will be in the outer splash range.
(\[43.375 + 80\] \* 4 dealt.) By splash radius, I present the totals:

`100% = 253.5 `
`50% = 500.25 `
`25% = 493.5 `
`Total = 1247.25 `

So, I have now proved using STIT data and applying gameplay
observations/experience the pure superiority of the Assault Rifle. As
you can see, (RIFLE) 1247.25 \>\> 1771.2 (FLAME), especially before I
take into account that I need to reduce rifle... Oh wait, sorry, your
rantings about the superiority of the Rifle lost me for a bit. Where was
I?

Oh yeah, expounding on the RIFLE/FLAME comparison. Anyway, remember the
cooldown on the Rifle as 1.86? Yeah, we'll use that exact value.
(1247.25 ÷ 1.86) Thus we arrive at 670.56DPS. More or less even with the
Chaingun.

Of course, we all probably should know the Chaingun is, in practice,
better for for CC. However, such a large difference in numbers here,
especially when closely mirroring the environment of actual gameplay,
must certainly be of significance.

` ==Evasion, Armour, and Tanking-related figures==`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When maxed out, Concussion Grenades give a 35% chance to miss for those
under the 12 second effect. It also reduces their attack speed, so in a
way you could say it's higher than 81.8% when compared to non-slowed
zombies. ;) 0.4 \* 0.7 \* 0.65 = 0.182 1 - 0.182 = 81.8% Evasion The
Concussion Grenade info can be found on the website
[page](www.redscull.com/swat/ "wikilink").

If you want to factor in attack speed as a form of evasion, that could
be considered as another 45% layer of Evasion. 0.182 \* 0.55 = 0.1001
1 - 0.1001 = 89.99% Evasion Remember however that the effects of
Concussion Grenade never actually provide Evasion, and the slow effect
is more like guaranteed damage reduction. It is also prudent to note
that the 3s cooldown means some zombies will overtake the slowed ones
and hit you while it is still in cooldown.

I could add in the movespeed as yet another (swingy) form of Evasion,
but that one is dependant on how far away the zombies are; the stun also
makes it hard to figure out a damn formula for the calculations.

If you want to add an Aegis Vest, here's the calculations sans the
attack speed. Keep in mind it only works for zombies however. The damage
deflection works on damage to health; with Nanites on a tanking
Character, this equates to: 0.20 \* 0.06 = 0.012 A far too insignificant
number to be considered useful. Without Nanites, and against normal
minions (and the no-Nanites part is already dangerous enough in itself),
it's a simple 20% evasion. The +25 Armour is \[i\]not\[/i\] evasion, but
I'll provide the figure here in terms of effective health. 0.06 \* 25 =
1.5x extra health (1 / 2.5) = 0.4 1 - 0.4 = 60% psuedo-Evasion With
Nanites on, the figure comes to: 0.4 \* 0.06 = 0.024 1 - 0.024 = 2.4%
psuedo-Evasion

Note that I do not include Dragoon for these calculations; its effective
Evasion would be far inferior to that provided by the Acrobat trait. +3
Armour would be 15.25% effective Evasion.

I have converted all appropriate values into Evasion form. I have kept
everything to 2dp (4dp in decimal form) to make it easier for me to
figure out which end is which in my calculations.

`Evasion Data `

Acrobat = 30% (0.7 chance to hit) Plasma Shield = 60% (0.4) Conc
Accuracy = 35% (0.65) Conc Attack Speed = 45% (0.55) Total = 89.99%
(0.1001) Remember, the above figure is already a bit haphazard.

Deflection + Nanites = 1.2% (0.988) Aegis + ExoSuit + Nanites = 3.76%
(0.9624) Total = 4.92% (0.9508)

Deflection - Nanites = 20% (0.8) Aegis + ExoSuit - Nanites = 62.69%
(0.3731) Total = 70.15% (0.2985)

`Evasion With Nanites On `

0.1001 \* 0.9508 = 0.09518 1 - 0.09518 = 90.48% effective Evasion
(0.0952)

`Evasion With Nanites Off `

0.1001 \* 0.3125 = 0.03128 1 - 0.03128 = 96.87% effective Evasion
(0.0313)

`Effective Health `

I'm now going to use those figures and convert it to effective health.
For simplicity, we will assume that there is no regeneration. (That
factors in below. And yeah, this is starting to sound like a really
technical discussion isn't it? ) Nanites On = HP \* 10.49 Nanites Off =
HP \* 31.95 Let's go the maximum route shall we? We've used two item
slots so far; the Aegis Vest and the ExoSuit. Now we'll also find one
Implant in the field, buy the implants from the Lab, and max out
Nanites. (650hp from implants.) For Nanites, I'll be using 0.16 for
Heavy, and 0.12 for Heavy+. Although there might be a slight inaccuracy,
I've deemed it negligible for the time being. I may revisit it at a
later time. (Namely, the 95% absorption is the culprit.)

`eHP with Nanites `

Max out Storage Cells, find a Solar Battery, and get a 5-stack Batt.
(Need a friendly Gadgeteer.) That's 3000 + 6000 + 2500 = 11500mp. 11500
÷ 0.16 = 71875 71875 + 650 = 72525 72525 \* 10.49 = 760787.25 eHP From
here, we can either add another 5-stack Batt, or apply the Heavy+
values. We'll start with the 5-stack Batt. 500 ÷ 0.16 = 3125 3125 \*
10.49 = 32781.25 eHP Battery Total = 793569 eHP Now we'll take the
Shield Capacitor route. 11500 ÷ 0.12 = 95833.33 95833.33 + 650 =
96483.33 Capacitor Total = 96483.33 \* 10.49 = 1012110 eHP

`eHP without Nanites `

650 \* 31.95 = 20767.5 eHP Phew, that wasn't so hard.

`Effective Regeneration `

Alright, now that we've covered effective HP, let's talk effective HP
regeneration. These figures will still be useful: Nanites On = HP \*
10.49 Nanites Off = HP \* 31.95 We also need to add another two figures:
How much is each point of energy worth in HP? Remember, damage
absorption mucks about with the straight values. Heavy = 1 ÷ 0.16 \*0.94
= 5.875hp/mp Heavy+ = 1 ÷ 0.12 \* 0.95 = 7.917hp/mp

`Regeneration with Nanites `

The main source of regeneration will undoubtedly be from energy. Max out
Advanced Generator, get a Microgen Mk2, a Megagen, and Solar Battery.
Although the Solar Battery is worth some 266% regen in the daytime, as
reported by red, it actually comes to about +83.36% when measured across
the full 24 hour (or 24 minute) day. That is 5.21mp/sec. 6 + 16 + 8 +
4 + 5.21 = 39.21mp/sec 39.21 \* 10.49 = 411.3129 That's our value for
Nanites regeneration. Now we have to choose between Heavy or Heavy+.
Heavy = 411.3129 \* 5.875 = 2416.46 + Vitality Heavy+ = 411.3129 \*
7.917 = 3256.36 + Vitality

`Regeneration without Nanties `

Regeneration = Vitality \* 31.95