## Godzilla

*Godzilla* is a unique boss, and may only spawn once in a game. Each
boss spawn has a 2% chance of being Godzilla. He has a ranged splash
attack (625 range), and an aura (range about two blocks) causing Power
Armour units to lose up to -19eps (depending on game difficulty).
Godzilla is resistant to Mind Slay, losing only a third of it's current
health. Killing Godzilla awards one extra skill point to each player.

## Skills:

-   Energy disruption: All Power Armored units within a huge radius lose
    mana quickly.

<!-- -->

-   Tremor: All large bosses do not attack C4 and Claymores, but their
    heavy footsteps do damage to nearby C4 and Claymores.

<!-- -->

-   True Sight: All bosses have truesight in a large radius.

==<Notes:==> Godzilla will be tracked via satellite once 3 reactors have
been powered all all difficulties below Extinction. An announcement with
minimap ping will always warn you when a boss spawns, but the same
announcement is made for all large bosses. Even if you don't have power
up or well-placed cameras, Godzilla's large energy disruption aura will
let you know he's coming.

Godzilla has a strong ranged attack with splash. The ranged attack makes
it harder for tanks to keep aggro, the splash means the group needs to
spread out.

The energy disruption affects all Power Armor units, including enemy
[umbrella soldiers](Umbrella_Soldier "wikilink") and [umbrella
commandos](Commandos "wikilink").

"Megazilla" has now been implemented, more information on this
particular version of "Megazilla" to come.

## Hints/Tips

When you see Godzilla's energy degen aura on the team, //do not run!//
Trying to run will only delay the Godzilla boss fight while keeping you
in the degen aura, thus lowering your mana. Instead, you should clear
any incoming mob and gather what you need for this boss fight. Bring in
batteries for the tank just in case. If the medic is losing energy
quickly bring in a revive and bandages just in case. If the medic knows
he will run out of mana, laying a mender early will make use of that
mana before it just drains into nothingness.

When Godzilla arrives an ion which strikes Godzilla and also fries the
pile will make the fight faster. Although Psychologists should not
generally use mind slay on bosses because of the long cooldown, Godzilla
is usually an exception. Heavy Ordinances should XLR8 and keep their
minis phased - phase protects against the degen aura and the splash that
could 1-shot all five minis.

Stay spread out! That splash hurts. Also you will be able to see if
Godzilla turns toward you in order to attack - step off if it looks like
he's going to shoot you and you're not the tank.

Don't burn batteries if you don't have to. If you aren't the tank or
healer then you can probably survive for a few moments on 0 energy.
Snipers, droid-HOs, demos, group watchmen, mavs, tacts, and psys are
usually fine for a minute with no mana, as long as they have health and
the tank is well-kept. Live at 0 mana if you can so that the batteries
are left over for the Nemesis fight at the end of Nightmare and
Extinction.

If a kami wants to sink his teeth into Godzilla it should reprogram to
max thrash and max gen, at the expense of turbo. This will be a long
boss fight and you need to overcome the degen in order to hyperthrash
another time.

Godzilla isn't all bad; he awards one skill point to every player upon
death. I personally like it when a Godzilla spawns because it's like you
get an extra level each without the mob experiencing extra uber. He can
also make umbs and commies extremely weak as he takes away their mana
too.