## Horror

*Horrors* increase the effective radiation count by 20 while they are
alive, and have roughly three times the armor of an Abomination. Only
one Horror can be in play at a time (although multiple may spawn per
game), and their chance of spawning is dependent on the radiation level
when the boss spawns. Horrors can throw Rad-Bolts and upon death award
three valor points per hero until the valor pool is depleted.

## Skills

-   Blackout: This skill is a map-trigger that turns the screen black,
    puts all biological units to sleep, and disrupts mechanical units.
    This can only be triggered as the horror spawns and/or as the horror
    drops below 50% health. Sleep time occurs for 60 seconds (3 seconds
    if the hero is Rad. Resistant), but incurring any damage wakes from
    sleep.

<!-- -->

-   Rad bolt: The horror launches a long-range radiation bolt, dealing
    800 radiation damage. This skill has a cooldown, but can easily be
    used multiple times during a boss fight. Rad. Resistant heroes will
    not be targeted by Rad bolt.

<!-- -->

-   Tremor: All large bosses do not attack C4 and Claymores, but their
    heavy footsteps do damage to nearby C4 and Claymores.

<!-- -->

-   True Sight: All bosses have truesight in a large radius.

==<Notes:==> On Nightmare, Extinction, and Survival, Horrors will spawn
with an escort of Radiating Grotesques (Gargoyles), effectively meaning
they increase radiation count by around 25.

The rad bolt skill will be used against a random player, even if the
tank is doing a good job of holding aggro. Casting rad bolt breaks the
effect of pheromones.

Horrors are empathic to radiation and lose a fixed portion of their hp
([1](http://redscull.com/forum/viewtopic.php?p=52263#52263%7C3.2-4.8%) )
every time a radiation fragment is destroyed while they are alive.
Quickly hunting a rad room after the horror spawns can bring his health
down dramatically. However, the radiation fragments from a dead rad room
along with the high rad count of a horror can often raise rads to an
unbearable level.

Although the Horror spawn chance is increased by high radiation, he can
spawn even with 0 rads on the map, often delaying game end.

## Hints/Tips - Horror

Horrors will be tracked via satellite once 3 reactors have been powered
all all difficulties below Extinction. An announcement with minimap ping
will always warn you when a boss spawns, but the same announcement is
made for all large bosses.

Horrors are no real threat to the tank with their slow attack. The main
problem is that the high radiation will make the mob stronger and cause
more strong mutants to spawn. Furthurmore, the radiation bolts they fire
can keep hurting the team and cause some of the high dps classes to want
to abandon the fight. Try to make this fight quick to limit the number
of rad bolts fired and time with high rads.

Although the screen may turn black without warning, the sleep takes half
a second to kick in. Quickly throw an AoE skill onto the team or
yourself before you're slept, and you can actually wake yourself. This
is especially important for solo watchman to keep themselves going.
Sleep is cast in in a random order, so multiple heroes may want to cast
AoE skills to wake the group.

Radiation immune characters get a very short-duration sleep (3 seconds).
Rad Resistant trait, being inside a powered bunker, being inside the
lab, or Tact's Rad Away can make sleep basically meaningless, allowing
you to wake the rest of the team. Quickly reacting to the black screen
by recalling or casting rad-away is a good habit to have. Putting
rad-away on the entire team to prevent rad bolts is very worthwhile.
Solos should watch the horror boss fight to know when to be ready for
the half-health blackout.

The Horror's garg swarm comes in together, making MIRV, plasma grenade,
and X-grenade useful during the initial onslaught. After they have
attacked they will spread out, making them bad targets for AoE spells.
Killing rad gargs does not directly kill a radiation fragment, thus does
not do damage to the Horror.

During second sleep on Nightmare and Extinction Horrors will turn the
zombies around it into rad walkers with full mana. These rad walkers
will then target heroes with several Rad. Bolts so be very careful when
engaging the Horror. Using antidotes to turn the zombies so as to get
rid of them faster because being they have full mana, they also can heal
themselves quite quickly. Do not destroy the rad. fragments dropped by
these walkers spawned by the Horror while he is still alive. These rads
actually heal the horror instead of damage him. In the current map
version these rad. walkers also spawn cameras that have true sight of
the area around it for the rest of the game. This was to fix a glitch
where invisible rad. fragments would spawn. This will probably be
removed in future versions once the bug is found and fixed.