Innards appear on insane and higher difficulties. They spawn from the
corpses of zombies that have run out of lives and can no longer revive.
Innards have two stages: a proto-innard and the innards themselves. A
proto-innard is what spawns from a corpse. It is slow-moving, completely
invulnerable and has an attack. During this stage its health will
decrease rapidly until it dies. Upon death, it spawns a pair of real
innards, which can be damaged, move significantly faster and will last
for 20 seconds before dying. All weapon damage done to them is reduced
to a single, very low amount which is then modified by the type of the
weapon. Flamethrowers, laser weapons, rockets, and chainguns are fairly
effective against them, however the most effective counter is
direct-damage abilities such as Plasma Grenade, M.I.R.V., X-nade, or
Cluster Rockets. These deal 80% damage to innards and should be thought
of as the best counter.

Do not stand on piles. Innards spawn from corpses and if you're stand on
them, you will get hit. Each innard on the map increases the chance for
another innard spawn, so they have a tendency to come in large groups.
Never be afraid to use a direct damage ability on someone getting hit by
a swarm of innards; if there are lots of innards, the damage they taken
from anything but a lethality-spec'd X-Nade will be significantly less
than the damage they would have taken from those innards.

Innards cannot be phero'd. They tend to be lured by a dog but the aggro
rules that they obey seem erratic and don't quite line up with any other
unit in the game. Innards are given a "patrol" command on the body they
came from. If you keep running from innards they will run away from you.
All innards have a timed life if you flee from them long enough.

Heavy Ordinance and mini1's Plasma Shields does do damage to innards but
should never be considered a good counter because it requires the
innards to already be close enough to be attacking.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

==<Notes:==> You should always play with health bars on, if for no other
reason than spotting innards. Go to Options \> Gameplay \> Always Show
Health Bars and make sure it's checked.

As of P120218, proto-innards no longer have health bars, but health bars
are still recommended for seeing innards the moment they turn.