*The Intelligence stat in Swat has nothing to do with energy capacity or
regeneration as typical Warcraft III would dictate. Instead, it is used
for determining Item usability and effectiveness, as well as impacting
certain abilities and items.*

There are three types of intelligence in Swat: Base Intelligence
("white"), Bonus Intelligence ("green"), and Hidden Intelligence
("black").

A tool is available to track your Intelligence progression here: [Int
Chart Tool](https://swataftermath.com/tools/int.html).

## Base Intelligence ("White Int")

Base Intelligence in Warcraft III is shown in white on your player stats
(thus commonly called "white int"). Each Class of Officer has its own
starting int and level-up int scale, which is the primary source of
white int. A main Officer can never go below 100 int, and many
calculations are based on the amount of int you have over 100.

An Officer gains white int by: starting int, level-ups,
[Gifted](Traits#Gifted "wikilink"),
[Cybernetics](Specializations#Cybernetics "wikilink"), integrating a
Cyber-Net item, integrating a Megahurtz ChronoTech item, and integrating
Neuro-Implants. Specific Classes can also gain white int:
[Psychologists](Psychologist "wikilink") via [Mental
Clarity](Psychologist#Mental_Clarity "wikilink") ability,
[Watchmen](Watchman "wikilink") via [Neural
Augmentation](Watchman#Custom_Loadout "wikilink"), and [Tech
Ops](Tech_Ops "wikilink") via Officer Rank.

White int affects: all Officers using of items, how much int is lost
during a [concussion](Debuffs#Mild_Concussion "wikilink") (head injury),
[Engineer](Traits#Engineer "wikilink") Duplicating of items,
[Engineer](Traits#Engineer "wikilink") Combining of items, Freeze Ray
energy refund, [Mind Slay](Psychologist#Mind_Slay "wikilink") cooldown,
[Mind Rot](Psychologist#Mind_Rot "wikilink") duration, Bandages
effectiveness, how quickly you drain the black market account via
[Hacking](Talents#Hacking "wikilink"), and how long drugs used by Cadets
last.

## Bonus Intelligence ("Green Int")

Bonus Intelligence in Warcraft III is shown in green as a plus to the
white on your player stats (thus commonly called "green int"). An
Officer cannot naturally gain green int via their build, but can only
achieve this bonus via items: either by utilizing Mentats or holding a
Cyber-Net item.

Green int additionally affects: all Officers using of items, Freeze Ray
energy refund, [Mind Slay](Psychologist#Mind_Slay "wikilink") cooldown
(green int reduced effectiveness by 1/3), [Mind
Rot](Psychologist#Mind_Rot "wikilink") duration (green int reduced
effectiveness by 1/3), Bandages effectiveness and how quickly you drain
the black market account via [Hacking](Talents#Hacking "wikilink").

## Hidden Intelligence ("Black Int")

Hidden Intelligence is not typical to Warcraft III and cannot actually
be seen within the game (thus commonly called "black int" as it is not
visible on the black background of the player stats). An Officer can
only gain black int by choosing:
[Gadgeteer](Traits#Gadgeteer "wikilink"),
[Tinkering](Talents#Tinkering "wikilink"),
[Chemistry](Specializations#Chemistry "wikilink"), and
[Engineer](Traits#Engineer "wikilink") (sort of). Chemistry only adds
black int when it comes to Stim usability, it is not consider for any
other items. Engineer does not give a static amount of int, however it
makes items require less int to use.

Black int affects: all Officers using of items and
[Engineer](Traits#Engineer "wikilink") Combining of items.