# Nightmare Difficulty

![](Difficulty-nightmare.gif "Difficulty-nightmare.gif")

*This is the Main difficulty for SWAT, and it is extremely difficult.
This is for experienced players who have a solid understanding of all
units and roles in the game. Requires Rank 11+ Characters to play.*

## Required Objectives

-   6 Reactors restored
    -   Only 3 Reactors are revealed at start
    -   Revealed Reactors will always be 2 Badly Damaged and 1 Severely
        Damaged.
    -   Reactors will always be 1 regular Damaged, 3 Badly Damaged, and
        2 Severely Damaged.
-   32 Civilians Rescued
-   Reduce Radiation to 0
-   Defeat Nemesis

## More Information

-   Must be Beaten to Unlock Rank 12.
-   Additional LAD has a 100% chance of spawning in rooms.
-   2nd A.T.M.E has a 100% chance of spawning.
-   100% Chance of at least 1 Hazmat spawning in the graveyard as well
    as 1 other room.
-   Mobs come extremely fast, hard, and upgrade quickly.
-   Super-Class Enemies spawn: Zombies, Dogs, Beasts, and Grotesques.
-   All bosses experience upgrades:
    -   When Abominations die, they leave a fuming corpse that deals
        50hps damage.
    -   Abominations gain a TNT variation which explodes before it dies.
    -   Horror gains ability to knock all Organic units unconscious and
        slow all mechanical units.
    -   Super Mutant gains the ability to become untargetable and reacts
        to attacks more severely with greater effect.
    -   Umbrella Commandos gain the Chain Revive ability as well as more
        buffs to stats and abilities.

<!-- -->

-   Rad Fragment spawn rate is higher at the beginning.
-   Radiation is higher at start and radlets will appear more often.
-   Must take down [Nemesis](Nemesis "wikilink") to win the Game after
    finishing objectives.

## Guides

### Preparation for Nightmare

*This post was written in response to a newer player asking for
Nightmare games. I was on hiatus from SWAT for a period of about two
months, and came back to find that these newer players lack a lot of
crucial skills. This post was made to address these issues, and spell it
out for the new players, because many of these skills should have been
learned during or before Insane. - ong_elvin*

Regardless of who you play with, the first rule is to use Medium or
Heavy Armour, unless you are a soloing Sniper. Beyond that, practically
any build will work. It is important to learn the gist of what your
class is expected to do. If you are deviating from the standard
expectations, you need to state it.

The problem as I see it right now though, is not that there are
insufficient players with \[higher ranks\] but rather these players are
for some reason or another not quite up to a standard for Nightmare.
Now, I think it's perfectly fine and necessary to pursue Nightmares to
get a feel for it, but it's also important to keep playing Insane,
whether it is Perfect or not. I have noticed that a lot of the newer
players begging for Nightmare are severely lacking in some of the skills
that should have been picked up by the time they were playing Insane.

Among the most common is paying attention. Pings and commands need to be
followed. If you can't follow instructions, you aren't co-ordinated
enough as a team to attempt Perfect yet, let alone Nightmare.

Second is the use of contextual clues. This is things like performing
actions based on your path of movement. If the leader says you are
civving, and you make a Lab visit, that is your cue to get inside the
Lab and locker one stack of Antidotes, hold another, call an APC, and
then get out. If you are at the west Park exit, coming down, and the
Watchman/Sniper breaks off to scout the south, that is your cue to hold
position, and realise that when you move, it will most probably be to
the left.

The concepts of covering fire, team movement, and responding to lures is
between Insane and Nightmare level, but some understanding of this is
nevertheless important. Covering fire is important. If you are the tank,
and that guy with no Nanites is being pursued by a Garg, you need to
Cluster or otherwise draw the Grotesque away, instead of running past
that fragile player. If the group is moving, you need to know who the
faster moving players and Endurance-Tacts are, because these are the
players providing the cover fire while the slower players move. If the
leader says to run from the boss, and it's too fast to outrun, that's
the cue for two or three players to work with the Tank and ping-pong the
boss as you retreat. And finally, when the leader says to move, that
does not mean sit there and kill. It means to move, and to let the fast
guys hold the rear.

The importance of splash damage and protocols for Ammo distribution
needs to be fully understood before you have even mastered Hard. Some
newer players are giving Ammo to the anti-boss players. \*\*What should
have been learned before even attempting Insane is that the Boss itself
is not hard. It is the Zombies that pile in with the Boss that makes it
hard.\*\* It is for this reason that Rocket Launchers get Ammo before
Sniper Rifles. I've played some games with a weapon set of say... Laser
Rifle, Assault Rifle, and Chaingun. Granted, with only three players
there is guaranteed to be enough later on, but the Watchman player
wanted the Ammo first, which still shows a poor understanding of how
potent splash damage is in SWAT. Yes, he could kill Zombies in one shot,
but even after maxing out his laser damage, the Assault Rifle and
Chaingun were still doing more damage due to splash, and had only been
half-invested. (It should be noted here that The_Wind disagrees slightly
with this point on Ammo distribution mainly because his playgroup does
things differently, but still agrees that it is the Zombies that are the
real problem.)

A vast knowledge of the game mechanics is important. Go to the official
site or the wiki. Look at each of the major links. How much do you know
about what will be on this page? Do you know what each Top Secret item
does? Do you know who gets what Implants? Do you know what each class'
innates and learnable skills are? Every Trait, Specialization, and
Talent? All the Boss encounters and how to deal with each one
individually? All the major enemy types? All of the non-Chrono items? If
you can't answer "Yes" to all of these questions, go to the relevant
pages and read up on it.

Finally, some practical skills are needed. You need to know who gets
what items, which generally boils down to "tank is first priority." It
is not necessary to understand pathing perfectly, but you will need to
know how it generally works. You need to know how the custom AI responds
to threats, such as Super Mutant smashing, Commandos, and Godzilla. You
need to know where your Locker is, and that you should have a good idea
of how to best utilize it by the time you finish Insane. But perhaps the
most important practical skill that needs to be learnt by the newer
players is how to use Antidotes. In the (large) Nightmares I have played
with you newer players, I end up doing around 75%+ of primary doting and
40% of the secondary doting, easily. Some of you are at least doing
secondary doting, and often the better players are soloing or microing
too many units (we have to do a lot of behind the scenes). But most of
you aren't doing any doting. Work on Antidoting. Aim for reducing me to
50% of primary and 30% of secondary in games of 7+ players. (For
reference, I still am able to manage around 35% primary and 25%
secondary even with the best players.)

It will help to download some replays, and watch them. Pick one
Nightmare replay with good players, and watch it at 1x speed. I
recommend this one, but you should be able to pick out the good replays
from the fully documented player lists. (ie, colour tags, class icons,
ATME list, game flow synopsis.) As you watch it, try to figure out why
they do some of the actions that seem confusing. Pause every now and
again to check player inventories. Check the zombie flow, then turn on
fog of war and based on what the players would have seen try and figure
out where they are going to go next, before you resume.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Pulling your weight, or how not to suck at nightmare

*Originally written by Ducklord, this is an updated (and thus more
modern) guide to pulling your weight in a high level game of Swat:
Aftermath.*

Games today can be broken up in to two categories: The public games
where new players start, and the private games that are usually always
Nightmare (NM) or higher. Over the Swat's history, only a few changes
have been made to the rank progresson system, but one of the most recent
ones is also one of the most important ones - The vastly increased rate
at which you earn rank EXP (Rank 11 can be done in two games - A fast
solo PIN and a fast solo normal, or a solo PIN and two solo normals).
This leads to the phenomenon of being Rank 11 from a Perfect Insane
(PIN), but not necessarily knowing all the skills you need to have
learned in order to be ready for NM. This guide aims to teach vital
skills that may have been missed throughout the modern process of
ranking up heroes. This guide will be broken up into two general parts.

#### General skills

What are general skills? The things that I'm going to cover here are the
skills that relate to every class in almost every situation or team
composition. It will cover skills/traits/talents, the mob, general
positioning, and item usage. The first part of any SWAT game is to
choose your hero and build. For NM+, the general philosophy is that if
your hero is in the group, you will want HEAVY armor. As game difficulty
increases, many aspects of the game become "harder", but one of the more
obvious differences from Insane to NM is that mob is

\- faster, so the benefit of outrunning mob in light armor is diminished
(I will discuss sprint later)

\- hits harder, so having heavier armor servers you better to take stray
hits.

\- has more abilities active (Much more rad walkers in NM than in
Insane, leading to rad bolts that cannot be dodged once they are
targeted, mini-bosses, zombies are more likely to cast skills
(bloodlust), passive radiation damage from high rads early game)

\- Nemesis, his stun, and destroying light armor heroes in very few
shots All of the above changes will lead to your class in general taking
much more damage. Light armor simply cannot handle all the increased
damage early game, and you will likely be a handicap to your team if you
are constantly in need of healing and mana. In addition, the group can
only move at the speed of its slowest member - Given that most people
will be in heavy armor, light armor does not allow you to stray that far
from the group. While sprint may be useful for short scouting, the
number of things that can kill you through sprint in NM (rad bolts, TNT,
boss stuns) simply make light armor much less viable for group heroes
who do not need the extra move speed. Traits: You can read up on what
each trait does in it's own page
[1](http://swatam.wikispaces.com/Traits) This section covers how to use
your trait to its fullest. Survivalist:

You have increased health regen. This is one of the go-to traits for a
tank (With Acrobat and Energizer), as it allows the tank to use his vest
without fear of head injuries, as well as providing extra health for TNT
protection and being able to tank longer without a heal. One of the key
points of survivalist is that you can use vests regardless of int, so if
you see that CV3 and nobody has priority of it over you, ask for it!

Also, Survivalist heroes can put kevlar helmets on other heroes - Tank
first, then people who are most likely to take damage (Heroes who stand
near the front, like Mav's tanking w/ mecha, watchmen, alice, medics).
Survivalist heroes can also survive hits that would otherwise kill them
to a limit extent, this can be useful if you are forced to tank a nuke
from nem with low nans. Healer:

You can cure injuries with bandages, please carry them! Also, you can
hold stacks of revives - Even if there is a Watchman in the game for his
nurse, try to carry a 2-3 stack of revives (avoid 8, it costs money and
most likely will not be needed) for nem as a backup if things go south -
They can go in your locker to avoid taking up space.

Your dotes fully heal zombies and convert them 33% faster - You should
be the person doing primary (using the antidote on a zombie, as opposed
to an unconverted civilian) doting! This allows you to dote low-HP mob
earlier (Especially helpful for the first APC, as full health civs need
less healing from the passive radiation damage). Note - The 33% faster
conversion allows a Healer to be the \*only\* class who can successfully
dote mob after the "APC will leave in 60 seconds" message appears, so if
you are healer, keep doting! Chem. Reliant:

You can use 6 drugs with no penalty (Wobble on the 6th indicating
penalty on the 7th), and each drug lasts 10 minutes. Pop those speeds if
you have spares, you can use 4 speeds before they start to have
diminshing returns, and 4 speeds is 80% extra attack speed - The this is
more than a regular stim pack worth of attack speed! Rad Resist:

Remember to scan often, so the short-range scouts can go out and clear
close rads. Also make sure the solo knows you are RR, so they can ask
for scans to get the last rads. Gadgeteer:

You can stack bats to stacks of 5 - Make sure to use this! Also, you can
request 12 stacks of dotes (remember to put a slight delay between each
request to get 12) from the lab, this is extremely useful for the first
APC where you may only have two or three stacks of dotes to do the APC
with. You can also recharge stim packs to stacks of 4, and the increased
int allows you to use regular stims out of the bunker - If you have the
extra mana, keep the stims charged and ready to go! Prowler:

You can see through walls with hold position, and remember to use hold
position while camping to see cloaked threats (blue dogs) that might
come in during this time. Pack rat:

Remember to keep your rat on cooldown, and you can also store your pouch
in here. Especially important for solo heroes - Checking the contents of
your pouch while it is in your inventory will break your cloak. Checking
the contents of your pouch while it is in your backpack will not.
Batteries in general should be stored here, although you will not be
able to manually use them until you move them back into your regular
inventory first - This can be important if you need to use a skill that
costs more than 250 mana such as Revive on the medic, as you will need
to manually use batteries first to obtain 500 mana. Also, the decreased
locker cooldown means you should clear items if the group is in a rush,
as you are best able to sort them out later. Engineer:

150 int -\> 133 int

135 int -\> 123 int

120 int -\> 114 int

115 int -\> 110 int The above is the table for discounted int item
usage. Remember - you must have the BASE int of an item to be able to
duplicate items. Duplicating items that the group will often only have
one of (the Recall, FR, Riot) can be extremely useful, as well as
duplicating MFGs for mana intensive classes. Remember to combine items
as well, this effectively gives you a free item slot, although be
careful not to combine an item that someone else may need (If the group
only has a single CV2, that should probably go the borg, not fused with
a plus for yourself)

Specs: You can read up on what each spec does on its own page
[2](http://swatam.wikispaces.com/Specialization)

This section covers how to use specs to their fullest. Triage:

If someone in the group is using bandages, ask for bandages so you can
make 48-stacks of bandages for increased healing. Your dotes never fail
to convert civs (unless DTNT, which always explode when doted), so if
there is no healer in group, you should be the one doing primary doting.
Bandages will also fully heal people from critical health, so you can be
a secondary healer if your class has the int. Also, your bandages do not
cause the "recently bandaged" status, allowing you to easily cure
injuries with healer, or allow you to heal people better because you
don't have the recently bandaged penalty. Chemistry:

Although chemistry reduces the EXP penalty for overdosing, you still
should try to avoid it unless needed.

Using 1/3 of a drug for each dose may seem like a small benefit, but
this allows a little to go a long way - Get scratched? pop a third of a
buffout for a heal. Need to use an item? A single mentat gives you three
boosts of +15, allowing you three uses of that high int item if you need
it. Camping? You can pop 3 doses of speed for only a single drug for
that +60% attack speed.

You also get +10 int for using stims, and 33% better self-applied stims.
For high-regen classes (Demo, WM), this can be an excuse to spam normal
stims on yourself, as each stim will last 27 seconds and provide a 100%
boost in attack speed, which is a very powerful boost for only 600 mana
every 90 seconds or so. Robotics:

Remember to hotkey your robo. If it moves out of your vision, you cannot
select it unless you have it bound to a key. If there are multiple Robos
in the group, ask other people what their robo is on so you don't
duplicate auras. Espionage:

Sniper: Your movement speed is increased while sneaking. So use sneak.

Non-Sniper: ESPIONAGE GIVES A REGEN PENALTY DEPENDING ON YOUR ARMOR.

Light: 0.5 eps

Medium: 1 eps

Heavy: 2 eps

On a heavy hero, you lose a third of your regen by taking espionage!
This is extremely important, even more so than the -1 nans, as this is
more often what gets heavy-espi heroes killed early game - the lack of
mana, not the -1 nans.

Talents: You can read up on what each spec does on its own page
[3](http://swatam.wikispaces.com/Talents)

This section covers how to use Talents to their fullest. Hacking:

On average, most items will yield less than if you sold them to an ABM,
so unless you really need that early money (by hacking stims for a
recall or what have you), try to save items for selling to an ABM. Some
items such as fungals will NEVER hack for more money than they sell at
an ABM, so once again avoid hacking them unless you need the money.

If you pass an ABM, hack it! It's free money! Courage:

Gives a 35% chance for a valor point on level up. Useful on solo heroes
who don't have better things to take (Wiring and spotting on solo Alice
is meh, courage is always useful for the extra team valor) Mob
Differences:

Due to the generally higher radiation in NM (You will easily be in the
40-60 bracket for the first 5-10 minutes, and can easily go into 60-80
on a horror spawn or killing an early rad room) mob will have their
abilities active, which makes them much more dangerous. Zombies have
phase, heal, and bloodlust active, and will constantly spam them, and
faster mob can easily chase down a group. Gargs with mana can web
critically injured heroes, Beasts (Ghouls) will teleport more often, and
spawn more beastlings on death. Mutants gain an armor boost in the 40-60
bracket, which makes killing them with flamethrowers/gat
laser/chainguns/rockets even more painful, and they gain a damage boost
in the 60-80 bracket (they get more boosts in 80-100, but if you are in
that bracket, its either cause a bad horror sleep or you are about to
wipe anyway, so I won't cover it). The damage boost is _extremely_
potent, as early mutants with the bonus can easily hit 1k to 1.5k
damage, and charred mutants (see minibosses) can hit over 2k. This is
higher than the damage of the first boss. Do not let them hit you in the
60-80 bracket if you can avoid it. If you are the tank, be aware that
the damage can be extremely high, and combined with bash, can easily
kill you before you can move or use FF. Mini-bosses: Note - Only charred
mutants can be killed with slay, the rest only take 80% damage and incur
a heavy cooldown penalty STNT:

The STNT is a zombie with \~2.5k health, high regen, flame bonus
(+damage and cleave), 50 armor, and DTNT explode effect on death.
Priority to be frozen, and do not stand next to it when it explodes.
They can be rotted away, but this only delays when you need to kill
them. Charred mutant:

The Charred mutant is a mutant that can takes roughly as much damage as
a normal mutant, but has multiple lives, increased speed, and revenge
AI. Slays and microwave will kill these instantly. If you are the solo
and there is a psy in the group, its worth pointing out charred mutants
that you see for the psy to slay them at range. Pyros need to microwave
mutants to prevent them from reviving.

The multiple lives combined with revenge AI is what makes charred
mutants dangerous. The freeze-ray debuff is one of the few debuffs that
lasts through its lives, also making them a priority to be frozen.
Revenge AI means that if you kill them, it will turn and target you. If
you are especially squishy, try to avoid killing the charred.

Sgarg:

The Sgarg is a rad garg with a larger model, increased health, armor,
and regen, grotlings on death, and toxins effect. The toxins slow heroes
down, which can make it especially dangerous to heroes lagging behind.
On death, it produces grotlings (for another rad spike) unless frozen or
killed with microwave, so freeze it or pop it with microwave when it is
low health.

IMPORTANT NOTE: This is a flying unit, and as such, the Mecha cannot
draw agro to it. A different unit will need to tank the Sgarg. If you
have the most nans in the group or if you are a Techie with a CPU, step
up! Blue dog (BD):

The blue dog is a dog with increased armor and regeneration,
invisibility, and a chain lightning attack. The chain lightning can
devastate a weak group, so if you are the tank, this is a unit you
should try and kite if possible. This is a priority to be frozen to
reduce how many attacks it can get in the group. One way to kill them is
to freeze them and then rot them (so the passive freeze-ray damage kills
them while they run away from the mind-rot). Hooker:

The hooker is a beast (ghoul) with +25 armor, a self-stim, and a
multiple hooks (similar to how Pudge works in DotA). The hook drags the
beast to you (likely dragging you through mob), stuns you, then stims
itself and attacks you. If you get hooked, IMMEDIATELY SPRINT if you are
low on energy or have low nans to avoid being killed outright. Sprint
lasts longer than stun, so this will give you a chance to get away. If
you can tank the beating, then tank it, but immediately sprint out
afterwards. A borg can phero mob/pop force field on himself if needed to
drag mob off the group or to prevent dying. While you are being dragged
towards the beast, you can still use abilities, and sprint is a great
thing to have if you are fragile. Bosses:

Abom: There are THREE abom variations in NM, as opposed to the regular
one in Insane.

Regular abom: This looks like the abom for insane, and mostly is. On
death, it spawns spiders, and leaves a body with fumes. DO NOT WALK
THROUGH FUMES. The fumes do 50 damage per second to your health, and
lasts for a few seconds (5-6?) after you leave the fumes. If you for
some reason walk through fumes, you will notice 1) People shouting at
you to move, and 2) notice your health rapidly drop to zero. Dying in
fumes also means you cannot be revived without considerable effort, as
the movement speed penalty of res sickness likely means you will just
die again, and the reviver should be focused on healing themselves,
instead of you.

TNT Abom: Tinted red in color, this abom explodes on death for a large
amount of damage. The damage scales over time, and decreases with
distance - You can survive an outer hitbox pop with like 14 nans and
full E, but don't try it. Spawns innards on death. If there is a
freeze-ray, this should be frozen when low on health, and then have the
tank pull off. If no freeze-ray, Alice can kinetic shield the tank to
take the pop or she can tank the pop herself (she is immune to the pop
damage). If no Alice, a Techie CPU can tank it without taking \*that\*
much damage (have armor for best chance of success, no point in
surviving the pop only to get wrecked by innards) If neither of these
two are available, a borg can use force field. Failing that, pull off
the boss when it is low health and bounce it between heroes until it
explodes. Spawns innards on death, so have spells ready to kill them. A
borg with double scap can tank the pop and only burn a small amount of
energy.

Yellow Abom: Tinted yellow in color, this spawns during nem (and is the
only abom type to spawn during nem). On death, it produces fireflies. If
you are a sniper or other single target DPS class (But especially
snipers), SHOOT THIS FIRST during nem. It does a good deal of damage,
and snipers can get the higher multiplier (2k crits) against this. SM:
SM gains phase (becomes untargetable), a more relevant piss off, Super
smash, and pound.

Phase: He becomes untargetable. He can still be body-blocked.

Piss off: If you deal more than 1k damage, he gains evasion, armor
boost, and regens health. Sniper rifles do not shoot him when he is
under 1/3 health. Sniper mavs with low crit and watchmen need to watch
their damage if the SM has been hit by pyro rockets. The Kami will not
piss off an SM.

Super smash: A strong-ish punch that stuns, likely followed up by his
regular attack. He may attempt to cast this on the first person who
shoots him. If you cannot take the smash, PLEASE do not be the first to
shoot him. If you can take the smash, stand your ground or move up and
take it - Many games are wiped because someone was targeting for the
smash and insisted on dragging the SM into the group / past the APC /
into the tor or whatever. A borg who is stunned can still _release_
phero, but not charge it, to regain agro while stunned.

Concussive pound: Does a war-stomp-esque attack, disables the heroes
abilities, including the ability to shoot. If the tank is pounded, stop
shooting so the tank gains agro by proximity, or have an off-tank ready.
Tank can still body-block during this. Horror: Horror gains a buffed
second blackout when he is on low health.

When the horror spawns, he will likely sleep the entire group. A fast
mav/demo/watchman/borg can nade/mirv/rocket themselves during the spawn
(if screen becomes green with boss alarm) to wake themselves instantly,
but this is easy to mistime.

If you are low on energy or have low nans, DO NOT SHOOT. The horror can
easily one shot low health/mana heroes with rad bolt (800 damage)

The second sleep causes all zombies near him to become rad walkers. Once
these are killed, their rads will HEAL the horror, so kill the horror
first, then kill the rads. A bad sleep that produces 20 walkers can
spike the rads well past 100 if you accidentally kill the dropped rads
as well (due to fragments), and this can easily wipe the group due to
harder mob and healed horror if you aren't careful. Sludge: Has
entangle, impale.

Impale: Generally, the first hit from a horror will be a stun (the
impale). If you are a borg, have phero ready so you can take the impale,
then pop phero to regain agro. If no borg, have another unit take the
stun so the main tank can take most of the damage.

Entangle: Stay moving when it burrows. If you get rooted and you cannot
take the damage, then sprint out of there. Tank, if you need to
reposition, then do it fast, and allow yourself to take the majority of
the tentacles. DPS classes should focus on shooting tentacles off of
squishy heroes.

Items:

In NM+, more of the top secrets come out. While in Insane you may only
see the Shield Capacitor (scap) be used, in NM the Riot Shield and
Freeze ray come out to play. Riot Shield:

Gives 10 armor to the user, 10 armor to the recipient, and frontal
injury immunity. Used on the tanking units, because you will be forced
to eat TNTs when the agro drop associated with moving would get the
group killed. Freeze Ray:

One of the most powerful items in the game when used correctly, a
mediocre item at best if not. The Freeze Ray (FRay) requires 115 int to
use, and costs 250 mana to be used. However, there is a 3 mana refund
for each int above 115 you have, scaling to -150 mana at 165 int (100
mana per cast). The moderately high mana usage means that this item
tends to go on heroes with reasonably high regen, generally a demo.
However, as the demo has become less common in games, a watchman, psy,
tech, or even a mav with enough int can be a fray holder.

What the fray does:

\- On non-boss units, it decreases the health of the target at 1% per
second (freeze + rot + some damage is an easy kill on a blue dog)

\- Removes buffs from the target (Zombie bloodlust, Umb stim, Nem
Stim/pep talk/adren)

\- Slows the target: There are two effects here. There is the frozen
status which does the damage, and the chilled status which has the slow.
The chilled status is an AoE, so people standing too close will also be
slowed.

\- Prevents special abilities: Charred mutants lose livers, SGarg
doesn't spawn grotlings, Beasts don't spawn beastlings, Rad walkers lose
their mana and cannot rad bolt, Commies can't revive as easily and it
hampers their ability to dodge ion/xnade, the list goes on and on).
While these are some of just the "standard" uses of the fray (most
commonly to remove nem buffs, sgarg spawning, charred mutant slow), in
practice this translates to:

\- Reduce tank damage (although it lasts only a moment on bosses, it
slows boss attack speed slightly, reducing boss DPS on the tank).

\- Allow tank to reposition: Slowing boss movement allows tank to
reposition easier without losing ground.

\- Priority control: Frozen TNT/DTNT gives priority guns more time to
shoot them before they reach the group. Given the versatility of the
freeze ray however, it's value is really only limited by your mana and
how creative you are with it.

\- Saving teammates: Low HP teammate being chased by zombies? Freeze it.

\- Mob movement control: Zombies in front of a boss chasing down group?
Freeze the mob in front, they bunch up and slow the mob down.

\- Rad walker about to wreck that guy with low nans? Freeze him and he
can't cast rad bolt.

\- Blue dog rotted and running away? Freeze him so he dies to the
passive damage.

\- Nem nuking and there's a Nem-mini about to run out of nuke range?
Freeze it so it eats the nuke.

The list goes on...

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### How to take down Nemesis

-   Each person should be prepared to take down Nemesis. This means know
    what he can do and how to deal with him.
-   Prior to completing objectives, each person should be equipped with
    the right items to survive the fight. This involves buying out
    consumables especially batteries and either teleporting them to the
    fight scene or placing them in a visible place like the LAB.
-   Batteries - Each person should have a full stack of batteries no
    matter what. Depending on armor type and level of nanites of each
    class and the class itself, the remaining batteries should be
    lockered. The tank should have a full stack and another full stack
    in the locker. The light armored classes should be next, followed by
    the backup tank if there is one and the rest to those with the worst
    efficiency of nanites. The classes that can regenerate mana through
    an innate should only need 1 full stack. (Cyborg, Pyrotechnician,
    Demo)
-   Bandages and Revives - Each person that can use a Revive should have
    one on hand or one lockered. The Medic should have bandages to
    quickly heal wounds obtained during the fight to keep health high.
    Any person that has healer trait should have a full stack of
    bandages. If no one is a Healer then the person with the most int
    after the Medic should have one. People with bandages should have a
    full stack lockered.
-   Leftover Cash - Leftover cash should be spent on other items besides
    consumables, if there are no stims, then a couple of Refined Stims
    should be bought. Any major drug users should stock up on drugs.
    Anyone with a pill pouch should stock up on some drugs if they are
    of benefit.(Buffouts for HO, Mentats for Psych).Shield Capacitor,
    Riot Shield and the Droid Remote should already be bought out and
    distributed accordingly. After that, permanents should be bought
    from the ABM to fill up inventories and to make Design Plan items
    and if there is a Demo, people should get appropriate Gear Mods.
-   A nuke will arrive before Nemesis once all objectives have been
    done. A warning is given and everyone should move to avoid taking
    damage and more importantly losing energy, especially losing stacks
    of batteries.
-   After the nuke if any bosses are out they must be taken down before
    Nemesis will spawn. This gives the team either no time or a varied
    amount of time depending on the location of the boss and type of
    boss.
-   Before Nemesis spawns he will say SWAAAAATT....... Everyone should
    spread out a bit to avoid his War Stomp, which will make those that
    are stunned drop several items from their inventory. If you are hit
    you should focus on picking them up, especially if you are getting
    hit and you have dropped batteries.
-   Once the fight has started, watch him carefully, if you are being
    hit and you are not the tank then you should move away to avoid
    taking too much damage.
-   The messages that he says should be read and reacted to accordingly,
    Nemesis has 3 actions, He will launch a nuke, slay someone, or call
    reinforcements (Umbrellas).

------------------------------------------------------------------------