## Item-Drop Trick

The single, most important trick in soloing (or duoing) involves the
Temporal Avatar item. It goes under various names but for simplicity
we'll call it the Item-Drop trick. Because the avatar is an
uncontrollable unit on patrol on your hero, it can only duplicate
certain orders. It will move when you move, and attack while you're
attacking (or attack-moving). Other orders like dropping an item, it
can't follow, so instead, it stands in place and shoots what it can. The
trick is that when you want your avatars to shoot as your move, you need
to issue a point-targetted order where you want your player to run to,
such as dropping an item there. Some classes have point targetted orders
that make avatar use quite easy, such as Place C4 and Construct Camera
(Cluster Rockets, MIRV, Plasma Grenade, X-Nade, Concussion Grenade all
work as well, you just need to make sure to watch wasting mana when you
use them \~capn_koala). This trick lets you damage the mob while still
moving, but note that they can only shoot at things that you have sight
of. This trick is great for retreating, taking down bosses, leaving tors
and any number of situations where in larger games, someone else on the
the team would cover you. If you are having trouble in game sizes that
give you an avatar, learning how to use this item well could be the
solution. \~NmdSnprEnigma

## Camping

A very large volume of people seem to have a big problem camping. So I
thought I'd take a little time to explain how to not-suck, especially so
I can refer people from the SWAT channel to this post. This is the
Screenshots and Replays thread, afterall.

The picture you see before you is the average group of bumpkins that has
no idea what they're doing in terms of camping. The gray guy is me,
obviously, and the yellow guy is my pro friend. We're really the only
two people standing anywhere near where we should be.

Now look at the picture and think of the red plus (+) as a graph, who's
quadrents I've conveniently marked for you with a 1, 2, 3, and 4. In our
current situation, the Q1 (first quadrant) is the same quadrant that our
corner is in. No human player should be holding in Q1, it is reserved
solely for the mecha mutt, which should be placed inside the blue oval
to lure mob perfectly to it from all current directions, marked by the
teal arrows.

Next comes the actual players. The tank is the class that should be
taking the hits, obviously, and as such he should be sitting up front.
In our situation, the "front" is essentially the area above the X-axis
of our graph. The tank should be positioned right about where yellow is,
at the center of the graph, (0,0). After that, the group should all be
positioned behind him. In some situations, its okay for the group to
spread out around Q3 and Q4 in the green rectangle. This is generally
accepted for when the majority of the mob is coming from one direction,
namely the "front" which is the top side of our X-axis in this picture
(Q1, Q2).

But, when the mob is being unpredictable, and this applies especially
well on nightmare and ext, the group may have to position themselves
only inside the yellow triangle both for maximum security (pending
vision for tnt-ghouls) and also to help maximize the splash damage of
firepower as the mob is tightly compressed in the purple rings, which
represents the pyro's tovs, and is your key killing area. There should
not be any excess of bodies in any area besides the purple cirlce, which
is very convenient for ioning the "pile." Note that the purple area is
inside Q1, where only the robodog should be, and NO human players.

When positioning, also consider your placement in the marked areas. You
can see that I, the medic, am directly behind the tank in order to have
easy access to him. The main target for adren should be behind or beside
the medic, and of course anyone with low range, like a pyro, would be
close to the front. Common sense things (or so you'd think). But I see
lots of "pros" that still don't have this simple concept committed well
enough to memory. Placement should be a natural thing, not something
you're forced to do because a leader yells at you. If people could
consider character placement and try to teach people these fundamentals
earlier, I'm sure games would go much smoother as players fall into
place without hesitation or uncertainty. It's so aggrivating to see "ext
players" still fail at this easy stuff! Bad character placement makes me
want to Alt-QQ from bad games much more than having to revive a lot of
players for making bad choices. Keep in mind that quadrant placement
will change based on which quadrant your corner is located at. Rotate
everyone accordingly.

NOTE: You can picture the red + graph by looking at the markings on the
street. Normally you walk in the lighter tan area of the street, but the
darker purplish parts which touch the walls can be thought of as
sidewalks. The center point of the graph is at the edge of the sidewalk,
exactly where it touches the street. You should also never walk on the
sidewalk when you can help it, because it promotes cutting corners, and
we all know that's the best way to get blown away by a TNT.
\~MinorFatality

## Walling/Drawing/Hugging

*Walling* is a technique in which teams will move their player near a
wall, thus limiting the number of directions from which the mob can
approach them. Walling portects the party and helps funnel the mob.
*Drawing* is the utilization of a low health unit (usually a mecha) to
take advantage the the Warcraft III aggro AI, which states that enemy
zombies will usually focus on the the lowest health unit. By drawing
with a low HP unit, the team is protected from enemy mobs and can also
effecticely lure mobs into their line of fire. Hugging (or clumping) is
the act of grouping up to create an area with a large amount of splash
damage, pile up enemy bodies, and protect the group by placing tanking
units nearer to the mob. By concentrating enemies in one area (usually
via utilization of drawing, but it can be achieved in other ways),
groups can focus fire on a specifc area to quickly eliminate mobs drawn
into that area. By piling up bodies, the party also limits where the
zombie can revive, and since all the zomibe are reviveing near the same
spot, they are usually eliminated by the area of focused fire. A group
that is not clumped (i.e. that is spread across the width of the street)
will spread the mob out, decreasing the dps of the team and making
taking hits more likely. \~LimeyMan

## Aggro

### Global Aggro

There are two and a half types of aggro in SWAT: global, local and boss.
Global aggro is important for pathing, but largely uninteresting. Once
you get a feel for how it works, it will be near 100% intuitive and
obvious. Mob is given an order to converge on the location of a random
swat hero. An attack move is issued for a subsection of the mob to the
location of a hero plus or minus a small area. This is done regardless
of cloaking, hero health, level, and player name/color (as far as I've
ever seen). This is not anything that you can avoid. This is why having
a soloer, even a cloaked one, can and will partially interfere with the
mob flow for the team. That said a cloaked soloer who only breaks cloak
responsibly will mess up aggro less because he will draw no less local
aggro.

### Local Aggro

Understanding and manipulating local aggro to your advantage is a large
factor in separating the good players from the best players. Local aggro
(who a zombie attacks) is based on a number of interacting factors
including distance to the target, target's current hp, whether the
target has an attack, whether a target is attacking the target or nearby
allies, the amount of damage a target is dealing, etc. The important
things to know are the following: Maverick's dog draws by virtue of it
having lower hp than most other potential targets, even when not
attacking. Any target with hp below the dog's will draw moreso than the
dog, so it is important to keep all other unit's health higher and
equal. That said, if a high-hp character is close enough for a zombie to
hit, the low distance will override the higher hp and that target will
be attacked. For these reasons, dogs may dance to keep the team safe,
but only if the team's health is high enough. Also, dancing the dog
behind any character will cause that character to take hits, so avoid
this when possible. An attacking unit will draw MUCH more aggro than a
non-attacking unit. This has large ramification for moving the team.
When pushing against mob without a dog to draw, it is important that the
team move along one side of the street while the tank stays on the
outside at the front. The team must not shoot. As the tank moves, he
continues attacking the mobs approaching the front of the group,
grabbing aggro while still moving and preventing many potential hits to
the team. \[pic to be included\] Units with attacks will draw more aggro
than units without attacks. This is part of what prevents civilians from
drawing aggro. Furthermore, this is what causes Lockdown and Stow Rifle
to reduce the aggro of the hero. Both of these abilities remove the
attack of the hero, making zombies less likely to target them. Also,
this is why a hero moving in range/attacking mob targetted on a civ will
undoubtedly save them. Another use of the fact that attacking units draw
much more aggro than non-attacking is ping-ponging, also called
wall-to-wall. This is most useful for dangerous units that take a while
to kill such as bosses and STNTs. Players on one side of the street will
attack the boss until just before he swings, at which point that player
stops attacking by issuing a move order. Because other players on the
other side of the street are shooting, the boss will aggro them and walk
away without having attacked. Once he reaches the other side of the
street, those players stop attacking and the process repeats until the
boss is dead without anyone having gotten hit. With little or no mob,
this can be done in a circle as well. Note that this is much less
effective on super mutants and ranged enemies like Godzilla or commies.
Mob can also be ping-ponged, allowing a team to move and still keep the
mob in check. This solution is midway between camping and running,
permitting the mob to be kept in check while still moving towards a
destination (albeit at a slower rate) and checking rooms. This technique
requires a high degree of coordination and very knowledgeable, very
aware players.

## Boss Aggro

Boss aggro is a special subcase of local aggro, but obviously a very
important one. When a boss is in range, local aggro is recalculated to
be relative to the boss. Any given unit in the area will attack a unit
that is attacking a boss, modified also by health, distance, dps, etc.
The practical meaning of this is that if a boss is around, you will only
be hit by mob if you are attacking the boss. If you stop to shoot the
mob off of you, it will move to the next best target, one that is
attacking the boss. This is very useful for fragile heros who are
dps-ing (snipers) to know. Also this means that if the tank stops
attacking the boss, he will likely lose aggro to a nearby player. Borgs
using Emergency Power *will* lose aggro temporarily. \~NmdSnprEnigma

A pyro working on mob control during a boss fight does not have to worry
about luring the mob to himself, as long as the tank keeps shooting the
boss and the pyro does *not* shoot the boss.

## Dancing

How not to get caught. To those who know how to do this it seems quite
intuitive but otherwise it can be difficult to learn. This applies to
dogs as well borgs who have phero'd. Effective dancing will generally
take the shape of a figure 8. Going from one side of a street, then up
towards the mob to bunch it up, then going down to the opposite side of
the street, and repeating this maneuver to make the rough shape of an 8
is an effective way to take few hits and have the mob bunched up to make
the most of crowd control abilities. Another option is a general U
shape, up one side, down across to the other side, back up, and back
down again. Also, going in a straight line perpendicular to the mob flow
is acceptable but this tends to spread out the mob some. At the heart of
the idea of dancing/kiting is minimizing the damage the team takes and
while doing that, minimize the damage the lure takes.

Anytime you have control of the mob, you have to be very careful and
aware of where you're bringing it and where the team is and is going. If
even if the mob won't attack the team (though if you're drawing without
phero, they will still), you must avoid dragging the mob over the team
or its path. In fact, phero/drawing will frequently be used to move mob
away from the team's path or out of the midst of the team or away from
civilians. Depending on the situation, it will be imperative that the
team MOVE and not shoot. Let them know this.

The important thing about kiting and drawing is to not leading bosses or
mob too far away from the team. The team needs to be able to kill what's
on you and alone you are not as safe as you might think. Ensure that you
don't run so far away that their guns can't reach it. TNT Abominations
can be hard to kite properly because of this. If you move away from the
sniper, the boss won't die and you'll be left with a low-health bomb on
your hands. You may need to tell your teammates to move out of your
intended running path so that you can stay near the team without popping
it on them. You may also need to tell them to stop shooting if you need
to double back on the boss. Regular fatties make kiting interesting
because of the unpredictablity of where the boss body will drop - try to
drop it onto a wall, and avoid placing it where the team is or will need
to go.
[\#attacking](#attacking "wikilink")[\#aclick](#aclick "wikilink")[\#aclicking](#aclicking "wikilink")[\#a-click](#a-click "wikilink")[\#a-clicking](#a-clicking "wikilink")

## Attacking

When attacking an enemy unit, \*\*never right-click\*\*. Always use
attack-moves. These can be executed by left-clicking the attack icon and
then the desired unit or location. A much faster and easier way to do
this is using the A-key on the key board followed by a left-click in the
field of play. As with any targetted order, you can cancel by
right-clicking once. When trying to target a particular moving enemy
unit, it may happen that you misclick. If you were right-clicking, the
game will think that you wish to move to that point without attacking
anything and without regard for the zombie horde in front of you. This
can easily kill you. If you issue an attack-move that misses, you will
target the nearest enemy, instead of wading through a sea of undead.
After playing for a certain amount of time, this becomes second nature
but it is a mistake the new players can frequently make.

## Walk-shooting

Similar to orb-walking in DotA, this technique takes advantage of your
gun's natural cooldown to enable you to move while still killing what's
behind you. This is best used on guns with longer cooldowns including
the Laser Rifle, the Assault Rifle, the Sniper Rifle and the Rocket
Launcher. After taking a shot, issue a move order in the direction you
want to move. After the cooldown has passed, which will depend on your
attack speed boosts and gun, do an attack move again *in the direction
you want to move*. You character will turn to shoot. Re-issuing the move
order only a few instants later will allow time for your hero to shoot
at the zombies behind you and then continue moving. If you re-issue the
move too quickly, your hero will simply carry out the turn animation and
not actually shoot, instead just slowing you down.

## Lockdown Hax

This is not actually an exploit. When activating and de-activating
Lockdown, your hero has three seconds of no attack. This gives your hero
as much aggro as a civilian, which is to say, less than claymores and
c4. This means activating lockdown will transfer aggro onto near by
teammates and also C4 (to be finished).

## Dote-passing

A coordinated team technique that allows for civing with a limited
number of dotes. If the team is aware that they are civing with a
limited number of dotes in their possession, they can carefully pass the
antidotes around to ensure that the target gets fully innoculated
(redoted) in the 20 seconds before it reconverts. The first player
("primary doter", typically a healer or triage character) will dote a
zombie while the team is very careful to kill it with splash weapons or
abilities. Because there are only so many dotes right now, making sure
that you don't kill it is key. As soon as that player can, they redote
the zombie, and if it is unsuccess they place the antidote down at their
feet with the expectation that there is another player waiting with an
inventory slot open to pick up the antidote and attempt to redote the
zombie. As soon as the redote shot takes place, the process is repeated.
Triage heros should be the first in line for this. The key to making
this work is the expectation that you will be required to pick up and
use the dotes as quickly as possible. If you see there is a partially
inoculated zombie, look around to see who has the dotes, look to see
when he's done doting and going to put them down. Stand near him while
he does this and grab the dotes off the ground as fast as possible, dote
and put them back down. Using this technique you can pre-call an APC
(call it around 4-5 minutes, when the dotes aren't ready yet) move
towards it, recall for the dotes, and civ a full APC with only 1-2
stacks of antidote before the first nightfall even. This is really good
for credits and valor as the game progresses.

## Cover Fire

## Being 'In Position'

## Aggro Management (healing)

## Communication

Silently getting destroyed by mob is just as bad as chattering about
rocket you launch.

*Please add techniques here as you find them.*