##### Objective: Reduce Radiation

//Important in reducing the strength and speed of enemies leading to
easier completion of other tasks//

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scattered randomly throughout the city are numerous radiation fragments.
As long as the number of rads is greater than the safe level (or the
nuclear fallout indicator is not clear), more rad. fragments will
continue to spawn. And the more rads there are, the faster they spawn.
Rad. Count is represented by the number of fragments over the safe level
in the top-right corner of the screen. The numbers are red until the
count is reduced to the safe level, then the numbers turn white.\\\\
Radiation is grouped into seven brackets of twenty radiation fragments:
0, 1-19, 20-39, 40-59, 60-79, 80-99, and 100+. Certain factors can shift
the non-zero brackets up or down. Radiation passively benefits monsters
and hurts players' units as well as affecting some other aspects of the
game; the current bracket determines the level of those effects.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Objective

## Victory

` * Reducing rad levels to 25 is required on Normal difficulty.`
` * Reducing rad levels to 20 is required on Hard difficulty.`
` * Reducing rad levels to 15 is required on Insane difficulty.`
` * Reducing rad levels to 0 is required to over-achieve this objective.`

## Reward

` * Lowering Rad count lowers the bracket levels which then in turn lowers the amount of radiation damage both civilians and Heros take.`
` * Lowering Rad count also weakens minions such as mutants and decreases the likelyhood of radiation carrying and throwing (green) enemies.`
` * Destroying Rad fragments while a Horror is present of the map causes it to lose a % of its health per fragment killed.`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### More Information

` * The radiation level is the only objective that directly affects enemies in the game.`
` * The "fog" of the city increases in density as the level gets higher. At the highest bracket it is extremely hard to see the map.`
` * Rads split into little fragments, called Radlets.`
` * Mini-Nukes raise the fallout meter. A high radiation level will increase the number of Radiation Fragments spawned at the next spawn cycle. (Ion strike also affect fallout by a miniscule amount)`
` * Rad Scanner equipped by rank 2 and above and a even better scanner in Lab is invaluable in achieving this objective.`
` * Manually killing rads give a delay bonus to the next rad spawn, killing multiple rads give a exponential increase in bonus whereas ioning multiple rads give exponential penalty.`
` * Ioned rads have greater likelihood to fragment, and radlets generally persist longer.`
` * If the rad count reads 1, then the last rad will not fragment when killed.`
` * A Tactician that can Ion accurately can greatly help bring Rads lower. (Try to hit rads that team is unable to kill manually to reap the delay bonus)`
` * Always try to kill large clumps of rads manually instead of ioning to reap exponential delay bonus and avoid exponential penalty.`
` * Robots are immune to radiation, radiation is non-lethal to Heroes whilst it is lethal to civilians.`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Strategy/Guide to Objective

Reducing the Radiation Level to Safe

//Out of Date//

A Guide written by trihero 9/5/2005

The food count in this game represents the radiation level in the format
of x/y, where x is the current amount of radiation fragments (rads) on
the map and y is the safe level. Rads are found in rooms and are little
green egg looking things. They are neutral so you have to tell your hero
to attack them. You can however right click them to attack them which
makes things easier. Each green egg is one rad out of the rad count.
Rads continually randomly spawn as time goes on, and their rate of spawn
depends on the current rad level; the higher the level, the faster rads
spawn! So make sure to constantly do some rad hunting to keep it under
control. Once you reach safe level, the normal rad spawning rate stops.

Radiation levels affect enemies positively and most of your units
adversely. There are 5 radiation “brackets” which determine the strength
of these effects.

The first bracket is if there are zero rads on the map. At this point,
mobs do not regenerate any mana, and none of your units take any
radiation damage.

The second bracket is if there are 1-19 rads on the map. At this point,
mobs regenerate mana very slowly and your non-hero organic units (namely
civilians and recruits) take minor damage constantly.

The third bracket is if there are 20-39 rads on the map. At this point,
mobs regenrate mana slowly and your non-hero organic units take some
damage constantly.

The fourth bracket is if there are 40-59 rads on the map. At this point,
mobs regenerate mana noticebaly, your SWAT heroes start taking minor
damage constantly, and your non-hero organic units take moderate damage
constantly.

The fifth bracket is if there are 60-79 rads on the map. At this point,
mobs regenerate mana quickly, your SWAT heroes take some damage
constantly, and your non-hero organic units are taking massive damage
constantly.

The sixth bracket is if there are 80-99 rads on the map. At this point,
mobs regenerate mana in monstrous amounts, your SWAT heroes take
significant damage, and your non-hero organic units are almost instantly
toast.

The seventh bracket is if there ar 100+ rads on the map. A this point,
mobs nearly instantly regenerate mana, your SWAT heroes are taking
ridiculous amount of damage, and non-hero organic units are on the edge
of death even with constant healing.

Note that radiation damage itself cannot ever kill a unit (it’s based
off disease cloud), it can only take a unit down to 1 health.

You can see it’s important to manage the rad level hopefully under 40 at
all times so that mobs do not get their mana and abilities going.

Once you get to safe level this objective is considered complete, but it
is possible to get out of safe level because of special things that
increase the rad count. You must be at safe when the other two
objectives are finished in order to win (the other objectives are
considered permanently done once you achieve them).

There are a few special things that increase rad spawn rate and count on
the map. One is the special Radiating mob that spawns occasionally, it’s
basically a green zombie/beast that has additional armor and a special
death coil ability. Whenever he spawns on the map, he raises the rad
count by 1 (not actually spawning one in a room) and drops a rad on the
floor upon death.

There is also a special boss called the Horror that raises the rad count
by 20. These 20 rads aren’t actually in the rooms somewhere to kill, but
once you kill the Horror those 20 rads are removed from the count.

The Mini-Nuke and Ion strike abilities increase the rad spawn rate if
they’re targeted on rads for balance purposes because they can target
anywhere on the map and there are ways to detect where rads are.

In order to help you find rads, there are rad scanners available. Every
SWAT hero has an innate rad scanner once you get to rank 2. This scanner
improves on certain ranks (increased range, decreased mana
cost/cooldown), and has unlimited uses as it’s an ability. When used, it
pings a certain number of rads within range on the minimap. A hero with
the Rad Resistant trait has a vastly improved rad scanner that scans the
entire map for many rads at a low cost and cooldown.

There are also two more scanners available on the map – the lab has a
mapwide rad scanner in the top left corner that costs you nothing but
requires you be near him to use it and requires the power to be on. And
also the special LAD droid unit can learn the rad scanner skill with
skill points.

The safe levels are 25 for normal, 20 for hard, and 15 for insane. The
game starts with between very roughly 33 and 38 rads depending on
difficulty and a random factor.

Written by trihero in his SWAT Guide Version 1.0