##### Objective: Rescue Civilians

Rescuing Civilians can be both the easiest or the hardest objective in
SWAT depending on how focused the group is.

----The zombies which plague Raccoon City are actually civilians which
were infected by a virus (created by Umbrella Corp.) and mutated by
radiation. A short while into the game, the scientist will finish
developing an antidote and make it available for free from his assistant
in the laboratory. Players can use this antidote to inoculate zombies.
Eventually, these zombies will be cured of the virus and revert to their
human form. Players must then lead these civs to a bomb shelter with an
APC or TeleVac. Civs will automatically board an APC or TeleVac once
they are near it. There are six shelters in the city, always in the same
locations, marked on the player's minimap with green dots. TeleVacs gain
mana slowly after power is restored with a chance to have a power surge
to gain 1500 mana periodically. Players can also request APCs manually
at the lab. The shelter each APC travels to when entering the city is
random. APCs wait in a shelter for up to five minutes (or until filled
with 8 civs) before leaving. Once an APC exits the city, any civs it was
carrying are considered successfully evacuated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Objective

Inoculate zombies then escort the converted civilians to APCs or
TeleVacs for evacuation.

## Victory

` * Rescuing 6 civs is required on `[`Difficulty/Normal`](Difficulty/Normal "wikilink")` difficulty.`
` * Rescuing 12 civs is required on `[`Difficulty/Hard`](Difficulty/Hard "wikilink")` difficulty.`
` * Rescuing 20 civs is required on `[`Difficulty/Insane`](Difficulty/Insane "wikilink")`  difficulty.`
` * Rescuing 32 civs is required for "Perfect" Insane, `[`Difficulty/Nightmare`](Difficulty/Nightmare "wikilink")` and `[`Difficulty/Extinction`](Difficulty/Extinction "wikilink")` difficulties.`

## Reward

` * Rescuing a civilian awards credits which are divided amongst all players.`
` * Rescuing enough civs to complete the objective initiates the government's Ion Cannon which periodically destroys radiation fragments.`
` * Rescuing additional civs increases the frequency of Ion Strikes against rad. fragments.`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### More Information

` * This objective is tied in with the Tactician's Recruit Civilian Skill in which he takes a civilian and makes it his own unit that aids him. The Woman can be put in an APC, the Cadet (with armor and gun) can not.`
` * APC can hold a maximum of 8 civilians.`
` * APCs are invisible in when stationary in the bunker, but can still be spotted by bosses.`
` * There is no way to send an APC out earlier unless you fill it up with 8 civilians.`
` * To start to civ early, call an APC from the lab.`
` * REMEMBER: An APC can be destroyed by zombies.`
` * Rescuing civilians beyond 50 does not increase the frequency of the government's Ion Strikes.`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Hints and Tips on Doing the Objective

` * If you have a splash attack, avoid firing at mobs that other people, or yourself, are civing from.`
` * If you are a Solo Sniper, use Cameras to help you detect an incoming mob.`
` * Use the Timer above the APC to gauge your civing. Usually civs take about 60 seconds to convert, but Healer can make them convert more quickly.`
` * For each reactor you fill beyond the second, it will cause a power surge at a random televac. After filling all six reactors power surges will periodically occur.`
` * Each civ takes 250 mana to be transported by a televac.`
` * Redote! If a zombie is innoculated but has sparkles above its head, it is only partially converted. Each nearby player should shoot it again with an antidote. Each person can only redote each civ once and redoting does not consume antidotes. If the civ is not fully innoculated quickly enough (about 20 seconds), it will convert into an enemy civilian with critical strike. Zombies may take more doses later in the game but should never take more than the total number of players. Redotes required is affected by difficulty.`
` * On Nightmare and Extinction, zombies have a chance to be doubly sparkly. Double sparklies may not be innoculated despite the entire team redoting them.`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Strategy / Guide to Objective

## Rescuing Civilians

//Out of Date//

A Guide by trihero 9/5/2005

In order to complete this objective, you must rescue a certain amount of
civilians; 6 on normal, 12 on hard, and 20 on insane. The scientist
constantly stocks antidote items (the initial stock takes longer because
he’s researching them and will always appear by 6 minutes into the
game). The antidote item has 10 charges to it, and is free. You have to
use the antidote to cure zombies by clicking it then clicking on a
zombie. There is a small failure rate which I believe is related to
difficulty (higher difficulties have slightly higher failure rates). If
a zombie is cured it will go under your control and walk towards your
position. It takes between 1 and 2 minutes for zombies to convert to
civilians, this time could be reduced by 25% my using the healer trait.
Once it turns into a civilian, then you can load it into an APC in one
of the radiation shelters (remember the green dots I was talking about
in the intro?).

It is often best to get a bunch of antidotes, find a shelter that has an
APC in it, then camp there and cure zombies and send them into the
shelter so that they will load as soon as they are cured. In order to
get an APC to a shelter you either need the power on which periodically
and automatically calls in APCs to a randomly selected shelter, or you
can use the Call APC function on the scientist which has a longer cool
down and calls 1 APC to a shelter.

If you do not have the power on, radiation shelters do not protect any
units from radiation damage, so you will notice that if you are doing
civilians before power that the civilians in the shelters will run
around from the damage they’re taking unless you tell them to hold
position. Also before you have the power on it’s a little bit harder
currently to send them into the APC because of the radiation damage
making them run around and because the loading isn’t always that smooth.
In order to load a civilian into the APC you must move the civilian near
it, but sometimes you will have to move it in and out of range a couple
of times before it accepts the civ.

Every APC has a maximum limit of 8 civilians and will leave the moment
it’s full. However, the APC will not linger forever in a shelter and it
will leave if its timer expires even if it’s not loaded fully. There are
text warnings on when the APC will leave in 60 seconds, and also text
warnings for 45 seconds for when the automatic APCs are called (power
on) when an APC will arrive in a shelter. However civilians may still be
able to get on board a moving APC after it has left but the chances are
low.

Once the APC leaves it takes a while for it to drive to a city entrance,
but once it reaches there a text message will tell you how many
civilians you have rescued.

You receive a certain amount of cash depending on the difficulty for
each civilian rescued. Once you finish the objective the government will
help you by periodically ion striking random rads in the city. Excess
civilians over the objective amount makes this ion strike fire faster,
and you still get cash for each civilians rescued.

Written by trihero in SWAT Guide Version 1.0