**One of three core objectives required to complete the game.**

*Located in random buildings in Raccoon City are six broken power plant
reactors. They are marked on the player's minimap with light blue dots.
On Normal and Hard difficulties, all six reactors are initially
revealed; on Insane and higher difficulties, only three reactors'
locations are initially known. When a player's main hero enters a
reactor's building, he will discover its condition (damaged, badly
damaged, or severely damaged). In order to fix a reactor, a unit with
energy must stand next to it. The reactor will automatically beam energy
continuously off of that unit until the reactor is filled or the unit
runs out of energy or out of range. Broken reactors are constantly
losing energy - the more damaged the reactor, the faster energy is
lost - so it usually takes multiple units (or items like batteries) to
fill them.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Objective

Find and fill the reactors' energy.

## Victory

` * Fixing 2 reactors is required on `[`Difficulty/Normal`](Difficulty/Normal "wikilink")` difficulty.`
` * Fixing 3 reactors is required on `[`Difficulty/Hard`](Difficulty/Hard "wikilink")` and `[`Difficulty/Insane`](Difficulty/Insane "wikilink")` difficulties.`
` * Fixing 6 reactors is required on "Perfect" Insane, `[`Difficulty/Nightmare`](Difficulty/Nightmare "wikilink")` and `[`Difficulty/Extinction`](Difficulty/Extinction "wikilink")` difficulties.`

## Reward

` * Fixing a reactor awards credits which are divided amongst all players.`
` * Fixing 2 reactors restores partial power. This enables the use of Automated Black Markets where players can buy and sell items.`
` * Fixing 2 reactors enables televacs. This enables civilians to be rescued by placing them in televacs with at least 250 energy, located in the 6 bunkers around the city. Each televac passively recharges energy at a slow, variable rate.`
` * Fixing 3 reactors (2 on Normal) enables permanent sight on new bosses, excluding Umbrella Commandos.  This bonus is not active in Extinction difficulty.`
` * Fixing 3 reactors (2 on Normal) enables use of the city-wide Radiation Scanner in the laboratory.`
` * Fixing 3 reactors (2 on Normal) enables permanent sight inside shelters and enables shelters to provide protection from radiation damage.`

A televac surge will always occur after the restoring the 3rd reactor.
Fixing additional reactors causes additional surges and increase the
frequency of surges.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### More Information

` * Most units can fill the reactor, including most support units: Robodogs, CPUs, Cadets, Clones, LADs, Mini-Droids and Mini-Droid MKIIs. Watchman returners cannot fill.`
` * Discovered Reactors are always revealed, if a unit that can fill the Reactor walks inside. All units that can fill, with the exception of LADs and Mini-Droids, will discover the Reactor's damage status when the reactor is discovered.`
` * A reactor drains energy from 1 unit at a time. The beam drains at 50 energy twice a second for an effective drain of 100 eps, for up to 5 seconds. Multiple beams on a single unit is fairly contiuguous, but switching beam targets generally takes up to half a second.`
` * Beams can be interrupted without penalty by running down to 0 mana on the filling unit, or standing close to the edge of the reactor filling radius. Completely leaving the reactor before finishing a beam will cause a time penalty on the next beam - resulting in lost energy as a reactor will continually drain energy until completely full.`
` * Reactors in Extinction need to be filled to 4k energy, therefore take 1.33x these energy requirements for total fill.`
` * On Insane and higher difficulties, the first 3 known reactors are guaranteed to be 2 badly damaged reactors and 1 severely damaged reactor.`
` * A damaged reactor take about 3.1k energy to fill, but drain (-3eps) slower than your innate regen, so can be filled by sticking around. NM: 7 beams, EXT: 9 beams`
` * A badly damaged reactor takes at least 4.25k energy to fill. It drains at -30eps. NM: 9 beams, EXT: 12 beams`
` * A severely damaged reactor takes at least 6k energy to fill. It drains at -50eps. NM: 13 beams, EXT: 18 beams`

` * Note: Charging reactors with heroes taking turns will usually require more energy because of the time wasted when switching. Attempt to time your beam switching for maximum efficiency of tor filling, especially with severe tors.`
` * Broken Repair Droids will explode when destroyed doing ~250 damage. The robot's actual attack is very weak, but be very careful that you don't drag the tor bot near the team when it is about to explode.`
` * Continuously charging a reactor with the same character without halt will have higher chances of reactor exploding.`
` * Characters with the Swift Learner. Trait will gain experience for each reactor that is successfully filled.`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Reactor Pops

Filling a reactor by yourself is dangerous, and even foolish in larger
games. Filling reactors is supposed to be a team effort, and penalties
are in place to keep you from doing a team job by yourself.

The reactor's chance to explode is proportional to the number of beams
started by a unit, squared. i.e. 1st beam is 1%, 2nd beam is 4%, 3rd
beam is 9%, 4th beam is 16%, and so on. The base percentage is adjusted
by player and robot count.

A good rule-of-thumb is to put two beams of energy into the tor, then
let it go to someone else. However, in smaller games this is not
possible. Divide the tor's energy capacity (3k for most modes, 4k for
extinction) by the number of players (or of units if using robodogs,
minidroids, cadets, and LADs) and that is how much tor energy you should
fill so that you distribute the responsibility evenly.

When a reactor pops, several things happen:

` * Any Heavy Ordinance using the Power Grid ability anywhere on the map will be reduced to 0 energy.`
` * A HO reduced to 0 energy while holding a battery will use a battery.`
` * The reactor loses half of its energy immediately`
` * Tor "feedback" occurs: damage and stun is applied in a radius from the tor. Damage amount is determined by how much energy the reactor lost in the previous step. The radius of damage does not quite reach the corners of the reactor, so those are safe places to hide from the pop.`
` * The current filler will be put to sleep longer than the stun. Someone with a weak gun should shoot this person to wake them up (flame, chain, or rocket launcher).  A Medic's Rapid Therapy will wake them without damage.`
` * People who are reduced to zero energy (or die) will have their nanites "bugged". Bugged nanites appear on at the skill, but status effect is not displayed and nanites are not in effect. Always refresh your nanites after a tor pop or after being revived if you die in a tor explosion.`
` * The chance for additional tor pop is significantly reduced. Basically the next beam that each person puts in is almost guaranteed to be safe from an additional pop.`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Strategy / Guide to Objective

Filling a reactor is the most dangerous time for a team. With civs you
can always fill a partial APC and leave it to escape on its own if you
need to; with radiation you can always come back for a single rad at
another time. With tor filling, you either get it completely full or you
abandon the fill - there is nothing gained by a partial fill. Filling
also drains the team's energy, giving you less security to absorb hits
and less energy available for crowd control. Finally, tor pops are
largely unpredictable and will usually hit several people while they are
low-energy and temporarily disable several people, minimizing the guns
available to keep the team safe.

As discussed above, most people should put in an even amount of energy
to reduce the chance of tor popping. However, there is a lot more
strategy then just filling your two beams.

-   Pathing

You want to path very well before filling reactors. Having mob from only
one direction will help dramatically when attempting a difficult reactor
fill. Killing off the mob and ioning the pile ahead of time will also
reduce the dangers of incoming mob.

-   Delay the mob

Laying C4 or a stack of claymores on your way to a tor fill will keep
the mob at bay and dead longer, providing you a safety window. Having a
little run before a tor fill (instead of camping outside the tor first)
will also give you a few moments peace.

-   Timing

Do not attempt a tor fill with a double boss spawn or commies on the
map - you are going to need your energy for these fights. Take the boss
fight, then start moving for your tor fill.

-   Maximum of 2 Units in the Reactor

Keep as little people as possible inside the Reactor. This way, a
Reactor explosion causes the minimal amount of damage/disable to the
team. The explosion is circular - people standing the corner of a
Reactor will not be affected by the explosion, while those in the
entrance can still be hit.

-   Team Mana

You need a certain amount of mana in order to fill reactors. Make sure
everyone is near their mana capacity before a tor fill, and bring
batteries to reactors where you may need them. There is no harm in
having the safety net of a few extra batteries in a potentially
dangerous reactor - they can always be saved for later if not needed

-   Choose your objectives

Filling a damaged tor is easier early on than attempting a severe tor
while people still have low nanites and skills. Filling a severe tor too
late may be difficult as the mob starts to hit harder, but you should
wait until your team has items. Choose the timing of your objectives
according to experience and the strength of your team.

-   Fill Order

Although filling order is not set-in-stone, there are many things go
better if the right people go in first.

` - Reprogram robodogs to full regen, and get them enough turbo to run ahead and start filling. They can have huge regen and will be ready to fill a second time time before the tor is filled.`
` - HOs should fill quickly, then step out and establish an XLR8. Their damage output will be very useful when the mob starts breaking through the claymores. He can also recover his mana quickly with power grid as long as he stands safely outside of the tor.`
` - The Cyborg is next so that he can recover energy before tanking is required. He also usually has good items and a backup batt, so he can recover his energy quickly.`
` - Watchmen have very high regen and can fill next, especially if they want to resume their soloing function. Watchmen with very high energy cap can "fill" more than their share by surging out their energy to people who are not otherwise ready to fill.`
` - Demos and Pyros have very high regen and are a good choice to fill next. However, they should not deplete themselves, as they use energy to control the now incoming mob.`
` - Robodogs can fill again and mavericks with high regen, as well as LADs and minidroids that can gain their energy back by draining the tor once it is complete.`
` - Tacticians, cadets, and psychologist should fill because they do not use energy for their skills.`
` - Snipers should fill late because they usually have low energy. Medics should try to avoid filling very much and just top it off because tor filling is dangerous and it is detrimental to lose a medic.`

-   Advanced Tactics

At some point during the tor fill the tor droid will activate. Although
its attack is weak it takes quite a beating to destroy and explodes for
normal damage upon death. Lethality grenades, cluster rockets, kamikazi
canines, and laser are the most damaging, but be careful not to hurt
allies. The tor droid usually focuses on one person, so as you are
running from the droid be sure not to drag it into the team where its
explosion may hurt multiple people.

Know when to abort - sometimes it is just better to come back later and
try again.

Prime a pop - if you expect the tor will pop, put someone in for several
beams to force an early pop. This will decrease the chance of future
pops, making it easier to finish filling. This is not a widely used
strategy.

Trade beams early - Let each unit fill 1 beam first, so that as many
units as possible are regenerating energy, instead of sitting at maximum
energy cap.

If the team has solar batts, everyone should fill their share and eat a
solar batt, then drop it on the ground. If the team has Megagen, it
should always be on someone who does not have max energy and should be
traded directly between people.

Rushing a Reactor right out of the bunker can be lucrative, and give the
team enough money to buy a Recall device without selling items.