*Every Swat Officer must choose a Trait upon creation. These Traits are
extremely important to how a class is played. A list of Traits can be
found on the [Swat
website](http://redscull.com/swat/readmeaftertraits.html). Technical
information regarding some Traits can be found on the [Swat
forum](http://redscull.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=192#14403).*

## [Skilled](image:trait-skilled.jpg "wikilink") Skilled

*Skilled enables you to buy the Skillz implant from the lab twice.*

**Usage:** *All Classes*

Skilled works well for characters that rely on having all of their
skills learned quickly. Because Skilled characters need to spend 1 point
less on each trainable ability, they have more skill points available to
further upgrade their abilities. Provided that the player intended to
place at least point in each ability, this effectively amounts to free
distribution of five skill points later in the game. Skilled is often
compared with [Swift Learner](Traits#swifty "wikilink").

Nearly all classes can use this ability very well as it is effectively
having leveled up 5 levels. This trait works well if you like to spread
out your points to many skills. If you instead like to really focus on 1
skill and not another, this may not be the best trait. It is also worth
knowing this: Psychologists that re-specialize while having this trait
will always leave level 1 of each skill up. So you can't use those 3
points you get from the trait and respec them into one skill. Also
Tacticians should be wary of this trait because it forces level 1
Weakpoint. You should not have two tacticians with weakpoint in a normal
game, so being Skilled will force you to be the one who gets weakpoint.

*It is a base trait that I use to balance the other traits.* \~ redscull

## [Gifted](image:trait-gifted.jpg "wikilink") Gifted

**Usage:** *Low intelligence heroes, slow heroes, kiting heroes. Covert
sniper, Cyborg, Tact (with only 8 endurance).*

Gifted works well for characters that like an extra boost to their
stats. Although having 5 extra vitality and agility may not make much of
a difference, having 5 extra intelligence can put some of the more
advanced items within reach for the less intelligent classes. The move
speed is also useful for a helping a heavily-armored character keep up
with the team.

A typical head injury reduces the Officer's
[intelligence](intelligence "wikilink") by 33% (1/3). Both Gifted and
[Cybernetics](Specializations#Cybernetics "wikilink") each reduce that
penalty. So if you have just Gifted, a head injury will take 20% of your
intelligence, and if you have both Gifted and Cybernetics, you only lose
11% (1/9) of your intelligence from a head injury.

Low intelligence heroes will find the boost of 5 intelligence very
useful, allowing immediate use of items that would otherwise require an
amount of time to use if you wait to gain the int by leveling up. Slower
heroes that use medium or heavy armor will find the extra movement speed
useful. The Covert Sniper will find the the intelligence boost and
movement speed both useful, Covert Snipers that solo will want to move
around faster and also be able to use items immediately that would
normally not be used until later in the game, such items are Claymore
and Micro-Fusion Generator. The extra move speed allows the Cyborg to
take fewer hits while kiting and to scout and return to the group
faster. The extra 5 intelligence will allow the Cyborg to equip a shield
capacitor, mfg+s, and vests earlier. The reduced head injury penalty
will help to allow the Cyborg to continue to use these superior items
even with a concussion.

## [Survivalist](image:trait-survivalist.jpg "wikilink") Survivalist

*- See the [STIT on
Traits](http://redscull.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=192#14403) for
additional specifics.* *- Combat Vests of any Mark do not have
intelligence requirements to integrate* *- Picking up a Kevlar vest will
not drop an integrated vest but picking up other vests will.* Cannot
integrate Titan, Tesla or Aegis vests.

**Usage:** *Tanking heroes, classes with lots of energy but no healing,
Heavy Ordnance, Demolitions, Pyro*

Survivalist works well for characters that rely on preserving life. The
trait allows the character to take some extra hits without being
impacted too much for it. Good for heroes that expect to take a couple
of hits

The [Heavy Ordnance](Heavy_Ordnance "wikilink") and
[Demolitions](Demolitions "wikilink") classes do not have trouble
sustaining energy levels, however each attack still deals a small amount
of health damage. These classes can die even when their energy levels
are high. The Survivalist trait gives them extra health allowing them to
take more hits. Combat vest integration allows them to use combat vests
that could normally not be worn. The chance to absorb blows is lost. As
with all armor, the +armor from the vest synergizes well with the bonus
hp and vitality (ex. 12 armor turns 50 hp and .5 hp/sec into 86 hp and
.86 hp/sec). Integration also frees up the item slot where the Combat
Vest was. Survivalist trait also reduces [injuries](injuries "wikilink")
by 85%, allowing the hero to take hits and not be injured frequently.

When paired with [Cybernetics](Specialization#cybernetics "wikilink"),
this gives health-dependent tanks a 110 point increase to max hp helping
them tank longer and with increased protection from
[TNTs](Zombie_info#tnt "wikilink"). The pairing also gives a combination
boost to health regen and movement speed while critical, helping tanks
escape when close to death. Can also be used with the
[Toughness](Talents#toughness "wikilink") talent if it is available to
the class for a 150 point boost to max hp.

Pyro who gain a few more vitality will find the high hitpoint regen
while in critical enough to allow them to sustain level 1 overburn at
the edge of critical health, but the low hitpoints tend to attract mob.

Hero becomes more resilient, surviving most damage when not in critical
health. This allows a Survivalist hero to survive a "1-hit-KO" (double
TNT, boss punch, rad bolt with low nans, etc.) dropping him to 25 hp
instead of dying. This is very useful early game when nanites tend to be
lower. This will not prevent death if the damage is high enough though.
(Exact damage amount is not known.)

## [Dragoon](image:trait-dragoon.jpg "wikilink") Dragoon

**Usage:** *Gun-based* *damage dealing heroes, especially with other
damage multipliers (crit, XCM, lockdown). Snipers, XCM borgs, Lockdown
Demos, and most Mavericks.*

Dragoon works well for characters that like a boost to attack damage
and/or armor. While the defense boost is not significant as more
specialised Traits, the extra firepower is useful for just about
anything and the extra armor makes tanking much easier. The versatility
about this trait is that it gives the ability for damage dealers to deal
more damage and tanking heroes to do damage better.

Damage dealers include users of the Rocket,Sniper Rifle and Flamethrower
weapons. Damage dealers will get the bonus of +2 max ammo + 17% more
damage, increasing the damage the Rocket Launcher and Sniper Rifle
weapons can deal by a large amount. As an example, an unupgraded
Flamethrower deals very little damage. However, a fully upgraded Dragoon
Flamethrower can do 70% more damage than unupgraded non-Dragoon
Flamethrower weapons.

Tanks will get the bonus of +1 effective level to nanites and 3 armor.
This means you can reach level 20 nanites. On heavy characters, this
represents a \~7% increase in tanking power, but no reduction in the
percentage of damage absorbed. Another way this +1 effective level could
be utilized is that it reduces the number of skill points needed to
achieve L19, freeing up a skill point for other purposes. The 3 extra
armor is good for tanking in that it reduces the health damage dealt to
you.

Mavs who mutate dragoon should refresh their nanites to get the bonus
level of nanites.

## [Acrobat](image:trait-acrobat.jpg "wikilink") Acrobat

*Gives a 30% chance to avoid an attack. If your hero has [Advanced
Armor](Armor#advanced "wikilink") he gains a 33% chance to evade attack
(such as [Cyborg](Cyborg "wikilink") and
[Watchman](Watchman "wikilink")). Sprint duration increased by 1 second
and cooldown reduced by 10% for [light](Armor#light "wikilink") and
[medium](Armor#medium "wikilink") and 20% for
[heavy](Armor#heavy "wikilink").* ([Evasion, Armour, and Tanking-related
figures](Evasion,_Armour,_and_Tanking-related_figures "wikilink"))

**Usage:** *Tanking heroes*

Acrobat works well for characters that find themselves in tight
situations frequently. The bonus duration and cooldown of sprint let
characters get out of rooms or away from zombies quickly, while the 30%
chance to avoid incoming attacks increases the durability of the
character. Characters receive 100% evasion when sprinting, making
Acrobat an even better choice for survivability, especially on lighter
armors. Keep in mind that an acrobat sprint is 7 seconds long and the
delay on cloaking is 5 seconds.

Tanks with this trait have 30-33% evasion allowing them to take more
hits, as some miss. As far as tanking traits go, this one provides the
best tanking bonus in regards to energy consumption while taking hits to
nanites from enemies. It also provides additional protection against
health loss and injuries. However, it provides no protection from splash
damage, targeted or AoE abilities, or TNT explosions.

Heroes that like to run can sprint more often and longer. A
light-armored Acrobat will be able to sprint 2/5 of the time while a
light-armored non-Acrobat will only sprint for 1/3 of the time.

This trait stacks with other evasion bonuses. Acrobat (30%) combined
with level 8 Plasma Shield (60%) yields 72% total evasion. Acrobat (33%)
combined with level 8 Organic Replacements (40%) yields net 60% evasion.
Acrobat (33%) combined with level 4 Deflective Armor (29%) gives 53%
evasion. The reason for this odd stacking is because of the statistics
of independent events. The combined chance to dodge will occur when
either chance to dodge is successful. This is the complement of the when
neither chance to dodge is successful, so if you know the chance of
neither dodge being successful, you will know your combined evasion.
Taking the Cyborg as an example the chance of the Acrobat failing to
dodge is .66. The chance of organics failing to dodge is .60. Because
they are independent, the probability of both failing to dodge at the
same time is .66\*.60 = .4. This is the chance that both dodge will
fail, or put in other terms, there is a 40% chance that the cyborg will
get hit. If there is a 40% chance that he will get hit, then there is a
60% chance that he will not get hit (i.e. dodge). This is how the 33%
chance to dodge from Acrobat combined with the 40% chance to dodge from
Organic Replacements yields a 60% chance to dodge and not a 73% chance.

## [Swift Learner](image:trait-swift.jpg "wikilink") Swift Learner

*Rez sickness exp. reduction is reduced to 30%.* *Hero contributes up to
25% less uber. More heroes using this trait will diminish uber
reduction.* *Bonus is 150% experience during epic levels.* *Bonus
experience for objectives is divided among all swift learners.*

**Usage:** Medic, *Tactician, Demolitions, Psychologist, Maverick*

Swift Learner works well for characters that rely on having trainable
abilities leveled up relatively quickly. Despite its similarities, the
approach to using this trait differs significantly from Skilled. While
Skilled forces the character to use one of the five bonus skill points
on each of the trainable abilities, Swift Learner allows the character
to distribute the skill points in any way the user chooses. Skilled
increases the total number of acquirable skill points, while Swift
Learner earns you the same number of points faster. Swift Learner is
also good for gaining level bonuses and stat bonuses faster.

The Psychologist has a rank bonus giving him bonus exp, combined with
this he can gain fast levels but not contribute as much "uber" as the
other heroes as his rank bonus will put him levels above others. The
Maverick is a class which needs a lot of skill points and Swift Learner
would allow the Maverick to level up faster, letting him gain the skill
points he needs quicker, with more points available to put into his dog.
This also gives his dog many points sooner, making the dog more
effective.

## [Healer](image:trait-healer.jpg "wikilink") Healer

*Revive items held in a hero's inventory will auto-use upon death,
refilling health and preventing any death penalties.* *Revive items may
be stacked to 8.*

**Usage:** *Tactician, Psychologist, Medic*

Healer works well for characters that like to be able to have healing
and reviving capabilities, regardless of the class. Characters using
this trait can use bandages extremely effectively. This is also
particularly helpful when antidoting zombies.

Apart from the medic, the Psychologist and Tactician have the highest
int in the game, Healer trait would allow them to become a second
healer, their naturally high intelligence allowing for optimal bandage
usage and injury removal as well as being able to use the revive item
regardless of the INT requirement. This can also be useful on a Medic if
he needs to conserve energy or finds that his team routinely gets
injuries faster than he can fix them with Rapid Therapy. Pair with
Triage for the ultimate bandage usage.

## [Flower Child](image:trait-flower.jpg "wikilink") Flower Child

*Reduces the effectiveness of stims by 33% in duration, attack speed
effect and move speed effect.*

**Usage:** *Characters able to use all three drugs well - Cyborg,
Sniper, Pyro, Demo, Heavy Ordnance, Maverick, Watchman*

Flower Child works well for characters that like to have short-term
boosts to stats. While these characters are reliant on
[drugs](Consumables#drugs "wikilink") to take advantage of this trait,
the actual benefit is considerably greater than that of other traits.
Considering the advantages that this trait provides (healing, injury
removal, increased attack speed, move speed and high intelligence), it
is permits a hero to be very self-sufficient.

With Flower Child, Buffout heals injuries and gives +4 hp per second
regeneration, this is good for tanking heroes as it helps them to stay
alive while taking hits, they can also remove injuries they may get.
Extremely useful while carrying hazmat (1 buffout nearly breaks even
with hazmat's -4.5 hp per second). Speed gives a major increase to
attack speed and gives movement speed, this may be good for heavy
armored heroes that may want to move faster or hybrid tanks that want to
deal a reasonable amount of damage as well as tanking. Mentats give
instant access to all items with flower child. Some items like the
Assault Droid or Stim Packs don't need to be active all the time.
Although the boost is very quick, 1 mentat will only need to be eaten,
then the necessary items can be used. It also gives a small boost to exp
gain which is good. Pair with Chemistry to get the most out of your
drugs.

## [Chem Reliant](image:trait-chem.jpg "wikilink") Chem. Reliant

*Increases the [Pill Pouch](Special_Items#pillpouch "wikilink") capacity
of all heroes by 6 drugs.* *[Reduces penalty for excessive drug
use.](Consumables#drugexp "wikilink")*

**Usage:** *Self-sufficient classes that work well using a few drugs -
Pyro, Heavy Ordnance, Maverick*

Chem. Reliant works well for characters that like to have constant
boosts to stats. Because of the increased duration of drugs, it is
possible to maintain intelligence greater than normal, putting advanced
items within reach of the character, regardless of its class. You can
eat up to 5 drugs with no penalty and 6 with only a slight screen
wobble. The experience gain penalty starts with the 7th drug taken.

With Chemically Reliant, only a few drugs allow the effects can be
maintained for a long time. Heavy Ordinance heroes could use 1-2
buffouts to keep their health regeneration high and 1-2 mentats to keep
their intelligence high. This will allows them to sustain themselves,
requiring less healing from medics and being able to use higher int
items. A Maverick that has Chemically Reliant has the opportunity to
mutate Flower Child (or vice versa), thus giving it superior drug
usability.

## [Rad Resistant](image:trait-rad.jpg "wikilink") Rad. Resistant

*- See the [STIT page on
Traits](http://redscull.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=192#14403) for
additional specifics on this trait.*

**Usage:** *Tactician, Demolitions, or solo characters*

Rad. Resistant works well for characters that do not rely on their
traits. While the immunity to radiation damage and radiation bolts are
considerable bonuses, the bulk of the bonuses do not affect the
character specifically, but rather benefit the entire team.

Tacticians with this trait can scan for rads and ion the rads that are
farthest from the team's path without relying on another character. This
saves time, reducing the amount of work the team needs to do to complete
the rad objective. Demolitions with Rad. Resistant can counteract the
negative effects of the Mini-Nuke ability they have, this allows the
negative effects to disappear quicker allowing them to nuke more
frequently if they wish without much harm.

## [Gadgeteer](image:trait-gadgeteer.jpg "wikilink") Gadgeteer

**Item Stacking** *Bandages = 30 (50 if paired with the Triage
Specialization) (verification?)* *Batteries = 5* *Antidotes = 12 (There
is a cooldown between 12 stack antidote requests, request them slowly to
ensure they appear as 12 not 10)* *Stim Packs (All stims except Psycho)
= 4 when recharged*

**Usage:** *Low intelligence classes that are item dependant - Pyro,
Heavy Ordnance, Maverick*

Gadgeteer works well for characters that either depend on the use of
advanced items, or those that rely on the use of consumables. With
Gadgeteer, any hero, regardless of intelligence, can use relatively
advanced items, and having increased stack sizes of consumables makes
collecting consumables much easier.

This skill allows a character to use items they would not normally use
as they would not have the required intelligence. Gadgeteer allows the
hero to use those items. Some items include Combat Vests, Rapid Reloads,
and top secret items. Gadgeteer allows Heavy Ordinance to fill batteries
to stacks of 5. You can pair with Medic so LAD drop both non-consumable
and fused LAD parts upon death.

## [Prowler](image:trait-prowler.jpg "wikilink") Prowler

*Holding position for a moment will cast a flare like ability around
your hero until 3 seconds after you moved*.

**Usage:** *Long ranged or scouting classes - Cyborg, Demo, Maverick,
Watchman. Also teams without a group sniper, psy, or pyro for vision*

Prowler works well for characters that like to have bonuses to firepower
and movement speed for roughly half of the game. Team strategy can be
modified to take advantage of this trait. Also, the bonus sight range
helps the team greatly, giving them day-time vision at night.

Long ranged classes will benefit in the fact that because of the range
of their weapons, their sight range is increased and this will allow
them to maintain the maximum distance possible to see and shoot. The
Rocket Launcher and Sniper rifle are also the main damage dealing
weapons with Rocket Launchers doing a major proportion of splash damage
to the general mob while Sniper Rifles dealing major damage to priority
and bosses, the increased Agility bonus will help them maintain their
attack speed to keep up the damage.

Prowler on a Cyborg will allow the Cyborg to move around and see
everything both day and night allowing him to short range scout to
soloing as a Cyborg. The increased movement will allow the Cyborg to
keep up a high rate of mobility and the vision will allow him to see any
dangers ahead. The increased agility will let him shoot down any dangers
fairly quickly.

Prowler's special hold-position vision has true sight, able to see
moving Commies, Sniper umbs, Laser umbs, blue dogs, and blue zombies.

## [Energizer](image:trait-energizer.jpg "wikilink") Energizer

*Can be used manually by using the Help ability (shortcut: ZD) or by
typing "help" if the hero has the energy capacity to use the entire
gizer batt.*

**Usage:** *Energy dependant classes - Medic, Cyborg, Pyro, Demo,
Maverick, Watchman*

Energizer works well for characters that rely on energy, or
specifically, have abilities that have high energy costs. Energizer
batteries are useful because of their substantial bonus to energy, often
replacing the use of a battery, which is crucial for saving energy to
fill a reactor.

Some classes require a large amount of energy to use there abilities,
other classes can use this as a 2nd backup battery thus having a large
energy pool. The Demolitions is an example of a character which needs a
large amount of energy to sustain his abilities. The Pyrotechnician and
Cyborg have backup energy sources and also require energy to sustain
abilities, giving them a 2nd backup battery would allow them to sustain
their energy pools for longer. There will blue dot above the head when
battery is charged. Energizer battery is first to be used when energy
drops below 250. The battery can be manually activated by type 'help',
calling for help by pressing the ability in the Z-menu, or by press the
hotkey combination 'Z D.' You must be missing at least 500 energy for
the battery to activate. While there are some instance when saving your
back up battery is the right course of action, in most cases, manually
using it will increase your total energy over time provided you don't
reach your maximum energy.

Using Z D will uncloak a sniper or espi hero. To avoid this, type "help"
in chat and your gizer batt can be used manually without decloaking.

## [Pack Rat](image:trait-pack.jpg "wikilink") Pack Rat

*Cheese may be given to Rat for a chance of it dropping either bandages,
drugs, batteries, or a stim. It will also call the rat to the hero.*
*Pill Pouch may be used in backpack.* *Lab locker has 3 second cooldown
instead of 5 minutes for sending items to the hero (the same cooldown
for sending items to the locker).* *Backpack may assigned a hotkey.*

**Usage:** *Item dependant classes - Medic, Tactician, Cyborg,*

Pack Rat works well for characters that like to collect items, mainly
consumables. The extra storage space makes being able to carry supplies
for the team, such as antidotes, stimpacks, batteries, and/or bandages
much more manageable. You should also keep the drug pouch that is given
to you at the start in the pack rat.

The Cyborg can use this trait efficiently, from storing batteries for
the use of Force Field, to storing items to distribute to make him an
effective scout. The Demolitions can effectively use the trait in a same
kind of manner. The Demolitions does not need batteries to keep its
energy supply up because its ability to biochem, however if need be, he
can still store them in case he does run out of energy. The Demolitions
can also use the locker more often, allowing him to send circuits from
the locker to use his Gear Mod ability more often. With his superior
intelligence, Pack Rat allows the medic to keep high-int,
non-consumables in his main inventory while maintaining an inventory of
stims, batts, pills and bands.

Mini2 droid made by a Packrat hero carry their remote in them. This
costs the mini2 -1eps but he does not need to remain in range of his
creating hero. The remote and all circuit boards consumed by the mini2
are dropped upon its death.

Packrat is especially useful for doing the job of the
[Quartermaster](Quartermaster_Guide "wikilink"). [Guide for using
Packrat as Quartermaster](Packrat_QMed "wikilink").

## [Engineer](image:trait-engineer.jpg "wikilink") Engineer

*Design plans or items created by design plans may not be
duplicated.Heroes must have sufficient [base
intelligence](Intelligence "wikilink") to duplicate items*. *Can also
combine certain items to produce improved versions of the items.* *Only
one [Engineered
Item](@http:''redscull.com/swat/readmeafteritems-engi.html "wikilink")
can be held at a time.* *Engineered Items require using a circuit board
(or death) to break apart the item.*

**Usage:** *Item dependant classes - Cyborg, Pyro, Demo*

Engineer allows your hero to create copies of some non-consumable items.
You are not able to copy ATME, design plan items, Chronotech items or
the Exosuit, however you can duplicate Exosuit pieces. Copied items
cannot be dropped, sold, or used to make design plans. Duplicated items,
or "dupes" that are dropped will disappear. In addition to the ability
to copy items, your hero is able to use items earlier. The 33%
intelligence decrease is applied to an item's intelligence requirement
over 100. Ex: An item requiring 115 intelligence could be used by an
engineer with 110 intelligence. The innate ability used to copy items
replaces the packrat innate.

The best way to think of Engineer is take all your white int (over 100),
all your green int, all your other black int, add them and divide that
number by 2 and that is how much black int Engi gives. Add that to
amount to the number you started with and you'll have you the number
that determines what items you can use or you can simply multiply the
sum of your rainbow intelligence number by 1.5.

This trait is very versatile and anyone can gain great benefits from
this class. It is a preferred trait for some Pyrotechnicians, as it
allows them to have six Micro-fusion Generators after finding just one.
The high energy regeneration rate helps them spam their abilities. Demos
can create multiple micro gens as well, but really appreciate an
inventory full of Duo-cells, which increases the amount of energy they
can obtain from Biochem. Cyborgs gain access to powerful design plan
items sooner, which there are more of because he is engineer. A Cyborg
with an MkII Gen and an MkII Storage Gen has a very nice amount of
energy. Cyborgs also gain the int to duplicate micro pluses, but this is
not as important because the borg is likely the most energy-dependent
class that can use the item naturally.

Only one copy of each Top Secret item can exist in the game. Your team
full of engineers cannot all have copied shield caps or freeze rays.

## [Reckless](image:trait-reckless.jpg "wikilink") Reckless

**Usage:** *Skill Point oriented classes - Tech, Mav, HO*

Reckless gives your hero +1 skill points every even level for the first
10 even levels. At level 20 you will have 10 more skill points than
normal allies would at level 20.

Because Nanites does not have a level requirement (you don't need to be
level 19 to have 19 levels into nanites) reckless does not allow you to
max nanites the quickest but because it requires 2 skill points for the
last 5 levels of nanites and the hero receives -1 nanites. It is highly
recommended that tanking classes not use this because they will get max
nanites early into the game and late game each level of effective
nanites counts.

Because you gain 1.5 skill points per level it makes it easier to blitz
useful skills like Dog (Maverick), Power Grid (HO) while getting nanites
or other skills such as Refined Rifle or Grenade on the Maverick or
Energy Cells and Droid Ammo for the HO.

A popular strategy is to pair this with espionage (spec) so that the
survivability from lower nanites is covered by the increased
survivability from espionage; because espionage also lowers nanites most
people do not level nanites with this combination except when they have
no other skill they wish to get.

A HO with 14 nanites and max Plasma shield is more tanky than a
different hero with 19 nanites. This can allow a HO to make the most out
of reckless and still not suffer dramatically from the nanite penalty.