## Umbrella Commandos

*Intelligence has spotted a Covert Umbrella Strike Force!* The most
widely feared boss variant, *Umbrella Commandos* will easily pick off
any team that does not have a strong and sound plan for defeating them.
They consist of several smaller units rather than a single large,
powerful unit. They have Cloaking, the ability to Revive fellow
Commandos (for 350e), Sniper Rifles, Critical Shot. The leader of the
unit also has several Aura abilities - Blitz, Endurance, and Weakpoint.
They are also programmed to run away from nukes and ions if set off on
them, although they can also be lured into a nuke/ion. While it is
possible to hit them with these abilities, they are more often used to
herd the Commandos into more favorable positions. Mind Slayed Commandos
cannot be revived. Commandos who have been killed by an Ion, or whose
corpses have been Ioned, revive with no energy.

On Nightmare, Commandos spawn with one extra unit, and have the ability
to chain Revive each other. (Chain-Rez also occurs in Insane to a lesser
extent.) They also gain +25 armor, greatly reducing the damage dealt to
their health. The Chain-Rez is the most deadly aspect of Umbrella
Commandos.

## Hints/Tips

Claymores are extremely effective if placed in large quantities around
them. Use hotkeys such as your Numpad to place them claymores quickly so
they can be set off to kill them in an instant preventing the chance for
chain revives.

When using mind slay, it is good to slay when one reaches extremely low
health just for the fact he cannot be revived and you will have a chance
to slay another commando.

Microwave is another very effective skills against commandos. Microwave
damage goes through armor and nanites but commando's power armor type
reduces microwave damage by half. However high level microwave can
instantly kill a commando when charged enough times. An efficient use of
Microwave is to get close so that you are doing full damage and then hit
each of the commandoes once with it. This significantly reduces the
amount of health damage that the team needs to do to defeat them

Umbrella Commandos would not sprint/teleport away from Ions/Nukes that
are placed directly over them, thus they could be lured into the radius
of one after the spell is casted.

Remember, they are not all dead until valor is awarded, until then, they
can instantly chain revive.

Because of the long range of the commies' sniper rifles, they are often
behind the mob. A demo
<span class="wiki_link_ext">[nuking](Demolitions#nuke "wikilink")</span>
right behind them will trigger them to run out of the nuke, toward the
team. Although they will rarely get hit by the nuke, this gets them
within range of all the team and gives you a few minutes of freedom from
the mob.

Computer-controlled units are dumb with their nanites. If you hit them
once they will turn them off long enough for you to get a few shots in,
then only turn them on when they have low hp. If these are sniper shots,
you can easily kill several this way. Also if a cyborg or LAD is able to
rocket then, the stun on several can give you time to take down quite a
few. However watch out! Revenge A.I. will cause the remaining living
commies to target the person who took out their comrade. Since snipers
usually have low nanites and are likely to take out a commie, they are
often counter-attacked and killed by commies. Try not to finish off ANY
of the commies until you can kill ALL of the commies in just a few shots
on each. This helps avoid the chain rez that can be the death of the
team.

Know your [damage](http://redscull.com/swat/readmeafteratkdef.html)
type. Some weapons are very ineffective against power armor, some are
excellent. If your weapon is better used to hold off the mob then do
that.

Make sure they are done before you move on! If they give valor or ammo
then you can feel safe to move on. If not there is probably one commie
hanging out behind to start the chain rez. Camp the bodies until they
cannot be revived (dissappear) or you finish off the commies. An
[ion](Tactician#ion "wikilink") can be an effective weapon only if used
like a pro. Commies are smart enough to walk out of an ion if it is
target on them. However, if you see them running toward a body to revive
it, target that body with an ion. The living commie will walk into the
ion and be killed. If he revived a body after the ion was cast, the
newly revived commie will not know to run. Both can be killed, but only
if your timing is right.

The most effective way to kill commies is with a leveled watchman's
x-nade specced heavily into lethality. Commies know this, and will avoid
allowing two of themselves to be hit by a single x-nade. A sniper's
concussive grenade of at least level 8 can stun commies long enough that
they are unable to respond to the incoming x-nade. Conc the commies,
then as soon as the conc lands, throw the x-nade and repeat this
process. The sniper and watchmen should try to shoot any extra damage
into the commies that they can without drawing extra attacks from the
commies. Finishing them all off with a rapid succession of microwaves is
very effective. If one of the commies starts to run to his fallen
comrade to begin a chain revive, use mind slay or freeze ray to stop him
in his tracks.