#### Zombies

//The most common enemy encountered. You will literally kill thousands
of these.//

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zombies are the only unit that can self revive themselves. There is a
cap to the number of times zombies can revive (each zombie has a set
number of 'lives'), which increases with difficulty. They revive with a
percent of their health that is partly based on their essence when they
die (more essence = more health when revived). These things prevent
reanimation: Ion Strike, Mind Slay, Microwave, and Freeze Ray. Zombies
killed by Aiming snipers lose some, possibly all, of their remaining
'lives'.\\\\

Zombies hit by Ion Strike cannot be revived, including any zombie
corpses that are hit (struck corpses will turn white). Bonus experience
is given equal to one kill for each zombie or zombie corpse to make up
for the experience lost out when the corpses don't stand back up. This
means that each live zombie killed will give 2 kills worth of experience
and each corpse 'killed' will give one. Mind Slay prevents zombie
reanimation but does not provide any bonus experience. Microwave pops
the zombie, removing the corpse and thus the possibility of reanimation.
Microwave does not provide any bonus experience either.

Aimed shots also helps prevent zombie reanimation by taking multiple
lives from a zombie. On lower difficulties, this is usually prevents
reanimation but on the higher difficulties, the zombies can have more
lives than the Aimed shots take. Bonus experience is award for each life

Zombies gain mana naturally and is entirely dependent on the Radiation
Level. If the radiation level is at 0 they gain no mana, if it is at
over 100, they gain it almost instantly. In between it gains at
different levels depending on the rad bracket.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Abilities

Every zombie will have one of the first three of these skills; rad
zombies will have all four skills. All skills cost 50 mana.

\> Brain Lust\> //A self-induced attack speed and movement speed
bonus.//

\> Heal\> //The zombie stops and Heals itself completely.//

\> Phase Shift\> //The zombie Phase Shifts momentarily. Phasing dodges
the initial damage and turns the zombie invisible, but it is immobile
and can still be killed by splash damage. Anything with truesight can
make this zombie mutation pretty pointless.//

\> Rad Bolt\> //Radiating Zombies are able to lob a Rad Bolt at an
organic unit, dealing substantial damage. Nanites can absorb the damage.
Radiation immunity (rad resistant, rad away, being in lab or powered
bunker) will make this skill untargettable.//

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Variants

-   -   Flaming Zombies\*\*: have an orange color and are visibly on
        fire. They have a bonus +100 damage and have cleaving attack.
        They are of low priority as they usually die before reaching the
        group and the team suffers no penalty if it dies near them.

<!-- -->

-   -   TNT Zombies\*\*: have a brown color and black glow. These units
        are explode on death for 300 area damage. In Nightmare and EXT,
        some zombies will carry two TNT barrels, exploding for 600
        damage. Armor will reduce the damage taken, but TNT damage will
        always bypass Nanites. A helpful thing about these units is that
        when they explode, they do deal damage to nearby enemies. They
        are of a high priority by long range units to kill before they
        reach the team. Doted single tnt zombies may convert but a doted
        double tnt zombie will explode.

<!-- -->

-   -   Toxin Zombies\*\*: are a sickly green color with a disease
        cloud. Friendly organic units (heroes, cadets or civilians)
        within range of the aura suffer movement speed penalties and
        lose health quickly. Neither nanites nor forcefield prevents the
        poison. Once a toxin enemy is killed, it drops a toxin rat that
        wanders around in a small area and also gives off the same aura.
        The rats cannot be killed but will die over time. Taking out
        toxin zombies before they reach the team will mean a lot less
        healing needed.

<!-- -->

-   -   Radiating Zombies\*\*: often called Walkers, glow bright green
        and carry a radiation fragment in their hands. When they spawn,
        the rad count goes up by 1. They have a bonus +10 armor and are
        able to use the Rad Bolt ability, usually at the first group
        member to hit him. Radinating zombies gain essence at an
        alarming rate. They can use skills very frequently. Often, they
        will simply stand there healing themselves unless you can kill
        them before the healing cooldown is finished. Once dead, the
        walker drops its radiation fragment on the ground, which allows
        the group to target it and destroy it. Rad. Resist Trait heroes
        are immune to the Rad Bolt and will also lower the initial
        health of radiation fragments dropped by these zombies. These
        zombies also appear on radiation scanners with a slightly yellow
        color. They are of a top priority to kill quickly to stop their
        Rad Bolt as it is the only ranged attack a regular non-Umbrella
        unit can use and can be quite devastating to frail members of a
        team. Freeze ray and mind rot permanently disable all abilities.

<!-- -->

-   -   Infested Zombies\*\* are tinted a sickly yellow color. They
        release a swarm of fireflies upon death to immediately annoy the
        group by eating their nanites. There is no way to prevent the
        fireflies from spawning.

<!-- -->

-   -   Super Zombies (STNT)\*\* are a Nightmare miniboss. They are
        equipped with two TNT barrels and explode for 600 damage upon
        death. They also have the Fire bonus (+100 damage), +50 Armor,
        and increased stats, most significantly their health. Like all
        double tnts, its main threat is when it dies, but its high
        health allows it to get in close to the group. Fortunately it is
        very slow and vulnerable to molotov, freeze ray, mind rot, and
        pheramones. Their high health makes them a prime target for
        incendiary rocket, but that just turns them into a ticking
        timebomb - use mind rot or pheramones to keep them from
        exploding in the group.

<!-- -->

-   -   Blue Zombies\*\* are an invisible zombie variant unique to
        extinction. Its permanent invisibility can only be seen by
        Psychologists, Prowlers' Sensor, Watchmen with Level 4 Occular
        Enhancements, Chrome Retrievers, and Concussion Grenade. They
        have an energy-draining chain attack, visible as a weak purge.
        Because they can still be damaged by splash even without seeing
        them, they are likely to die to by regular CC. Single target
        weapons as well as flame will have a very hard time dealing with
        these without truesight. Strong splash weapons will make short
        work of these enemies. Avoid letting them get close you. They
        deal a single-target tnt-like radiation-based attack on death,
        so also avoid killing them near you. If one gets in the team and
        you do not have truesight, use abilities like Plasma Grenade,
        low-level MIRV, and Cluster/Concussion Rocket to estimate where
        it is and kill it. Pheramones can gurentee its position
        (following the borg) to help aim your AoE. Having the rocket
        launcher attack the person who has the energy debuff can also be
        helpful.

<!-- -->

-   -   Atomic Zombies (Tommies)\*\* are an Extinction only miniboss.
        They are so dangerous that when they spawn, an announcement is
        made on-screen. They have STNT-like hp and defense as well as
        health regen that is off the charts. They also carry atomic
        weapons. This miniboss is subject to the normal rules governing
        miniboss slays (80%), but early on can be destroyed by a
        well-placed ion.

Tommies have two dangerous attacks, as well as their normal attack. Its
primary goal is to hunt down someone with its so-called "Touch of
Death", usually targetted at the first person to shoot at it, but
sometimes just a random target. The ToD does a huge amount of
radiation-type damage, stuns, and activates his second attack: a nuke.
This nuke is much like the nuke you have experienced Nem launch,
centered on itself. This nuke is released either upon its ToD or its own
death.

-   -   Atomic zombies\*\* have an insane amount of health regen making
        them near impossible to just kill. However, its hp regen can be
        decreased by multiple freeze rays and mind rots. After one
        freeze ray an addrenned aiming sniper can take down a tommie -
        just be sure that everyone is safe from the tommie's nuke.

Afterthoughts: Tommies are very slow and are completely stopped by the
entire duration of a concussion grenade. Pheramones will allow tommies
to change targets to whomever attacks it next.

-   -   Virunating Zombies\*\* (Purples) are a new variant of zombies
        added in version P120506. These zombies are not much different
        then a regular zombie except that when killed (or doted) the
        enemies (including mini-bosses) around them are infected with
        the T-virus causing them to have mass damage absorption and are
        immune to cyborg pheromones. Make sure to try and get these
        zombies away from the mob (by concing or freezing them) so as to
        minimize the threat. These zombies were removed in version
        P120826 because they caused the game to critical error
        frequently but have since been redesigned and reintroduced in
        version P130703.

<!-- -->

-   -   The Grey Men\*\* are a new variant of zombies added in version
        P120826. These zombies look like regular zombies, but are not
        auto-targeted by your hero. These zombies also have massive
        agility, so if you let them get up close, they really pack a
        punch! Because they are nearly indistinguishable from regular
        zombies, this variant requires you to be paying attention to
        your hero and watching when the zombies are getting too close
        without you auto-targeting them (thus discouraging afk camping).
        They are also immune to explosion damage and splash, so manually
        targeting them with your gun is a must.